/* The Englishwoman’s Domestic MagazineFirst Series, Volume 6 Correspondence Sections as Plain Text Link: https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=uc1.a0005855366&view=1up&seq=593&skin=2021Volume note: Correspondence is always late in the end matter in this volume, and thus missing from the regular paginated text in many library copies. Prepared by Julie M. Sorge WayPreparation notes: transcribed [period][em-dash] as .- for consistency in each entry *//* May 1857 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 1, p. 1-32) 2 pages of “To Correspondents” is in the end matter. */EMMA.- We hope to gratify you next month.EXCELSIOR..- We give the process by which themarking is achieved, at the same time remarking that our own wonder is not how it comes that the marked muslin is so dear, but that it is so cheap.The design must be carefully and evenly prickedthroughout the outlines; then laid over the calico,and rubbed over with a fine blue powder, used forthe purpose. Finally, it must be ironed. Or itmay be drawn on tracing paper, which must belaid over the calico, with blue tracing paper be-tween them; and the outlines drawn with a bluntknitting-needle.*** No letters can be answered in the next month's number which are received after the 15thof the month.ANNETTE.- We cannot inform you.J. D.- Go to the Hospital for Diseases of the Chest.C.C. W.G.- You can have the September num-ber sent to your address for three stamps.MISS MARY.- 1. Of no consequence. 2. We be lieve Alex. Ross' Liquid Hair Dye to be very good. SINCERE WELL-WISHER.- The title of the story was ironical.OAKEY will be answered next month if possible. JAMES HOLLIS.- It was a misprint; the number should have been 43,969.AILEEN.- Simply cut out the twelve cheques, and forward them (post paid) to the publisher, with your name and address.ANN.- Yes; a binder should not charge morethan 4d. or 6d. for binding your numbers in our cases.EUGENIE FRANCIS.- We do not remember the proverb you refer to.A SUBSCRIBER.- Forward the cheques from May, 1855, to April, 1857. You will be entitled to two chances. You will find the cheques printed on the wrapper..WEEP NOT FOR HER.- These lines evince talent. H. B.- No; received correct.S. S. MILNE.- We thank you for your sug-gestion.W. WATKINS.- The new volume (6th) com-mences with this number (May). The 5th volume was completed with the April number.MOSS ROSE.- Yes, each cheque will entitle youto a chance in the next distribution.CORDELIA.- No. The cheques must be complete from May to April (both inclusive) to entitle you to a chance next August.E. D. W.- 1. Quite optional. 2. See advertise-ment on the wrapper.C. HARRIS.- Yes.- No doubt Canada is an excellent colony, and one of the best for emigrants to choose fortheir destination.MARY PENRYHN wishes for a good receipt for making a dish of Haricot mutton.ISOLINE.- There is a life of the lady published,which we will forward on receipt of five postagestamps.LITTLE BEAUTY.- Yes; send seven postage stampsand we will forward you the “Secret of Beauty."A. MARGARET.- Through several numbers.INANNA will find her request attended to.H. A.- Nothing but constantly soaking thearticle will have the desired effect.L. TENNENT.- 1. Yes. 2. Answered. 3. Insertin this number.ETIQUETTE wishes to know one or two mattersrespecting the etiquette of a wedding. To her firstquestion, we beg to reply that the bride's parentswill furnish the carriage in which her father willtake her to the church, and any other carriagewhich may be necessary for the rest of the lady’sfamily. The bridegroom will furnish the chariotwhich will convey his bride and himself from thechurch. 2. The wedding cards the gentlemanshould order. 3. The bride-cake, and everythingpertaining to the breakfast, are within the provinceof the bride. 4. Neither party has anything to dowith the other's gloves. 5. Household linen shouldbe furnished by the bride's parents.MISS BEDSON.- Yes.A. Z.- "He Doeth all Things Well," by W[]“Watchman, what of the Night," by Miss Davie[]The above may be had of Messrs. Cocks and CoBurlington-street.BOOKS RECEIVED.- "Godfrey Malvern," by Tho[]Miller. G. Vickers. - "The Play-Day Book," byFanny Fern. Knight and Son - "English Traits”by R. W. Emerson. Knight and Son. – “HoursSun and Shade." Groombridge. . - " The ChainLilies." Knight and Son.-”The Home Schoolby the Rev. Norman Macleod. Paton and Ritchi[]- “Physic and its Phases." Simpkin, Marshall, atCo.-"Dress; a Tract for the Times.” Bosworthand Harrison.-"Cookery for Maids-of-All-Work”Groombridge. - "The Science of Dress." Grooms-bridge. - “Mis-Pronunciation Corrected.” Grooms-bridge.-" The Embroidery and Alphabet SampleBook.” Groombridge. - “Clara Woodward and her-dreams." Knight and Son.RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.– “Christmas Time”“Natal-day;" “ The Baby and the Rose Tree."T. J.- Declined.MRS. JACKSON.- Declined with thanks./* June 1857 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 2, p. 33-64) Entire number is missing from Hathi Trust /UCLA scan, which is the only one with peripheral material for this volume (and thus NTC) */ /* July 1857 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 3, p. 65-96) */TO TOWN SUBSCRIBERS.The publisher respectfully informs subscribers in town, that he will under take to bind the ENG-LISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, or the BOY’S OWN MAGAZINE, at 1s per volume, including cover and engraved frontispiece.ALL BOOKS POST FREE,MR. BEETON will forward, post free, all books that are published in London (from 6d. upwards) on receipt of tie published price, in Post-officeorder or postage stamps.*** No letters can be answered in the next month's number which are received after the 15th of the month.THE PRIZE CHILD'S FROCK.Miss MARIANNA CRASSWELLER, 11, Slon-terrace,Portsea, has sent us the prettiest child's frock, and this lady accordingly receives the prize awarded. Our subscribers will see in this number this pattern, which we have had carefully engraved, and, we doubt not, they will be equally pleased with our- selves at the elegant simplicity of the design. Miss Jane Fletcher, Callington; Miss F. G. T., 161, Falkner-street, Liverpool; and E. G., we have to thank for some very pretty patterns.M. H.- The first a in Raphael should be pro nounced as a in far.CONSTANT SUBSCRIBER.- Your pattern requires various colours being wool-work). We cannot accommodate you.THE UNKNOWN.- 1. About twenty-one. 2. Chewevery night and morning a clove or a piece of orris- root about the size of a small bean, or the same quantity of burnt alum. See "Secret of Beauty," price 6d post free.SABAT.- Declined, with thanks.E. GARROLD.- Yes, each volume will entitle you to a share, if you forward the ticket or tickets. T. R. G.- Apply to Dr, Conquest, Finsbury. square.EMMA S.- The present Duke of Manchester was born 1823, succeeded to the title 1855. Second title, Viscount Mandeville. The title dates from 1719. MS. BIGNELL.- []well bound, is a very good work. We will forwardit post free.JULIA.- We are not acquainted with the rules.Write to the secretary of the society.ROBERT.- There can be no doubt it would havebeen better not to have made the revelations youdid; but why for a moment lack faith in one whohas made “life a Paradise to you,” and who, whilstlamenting your illness, is slowly but surely sufferingalso. Such communications are not suited to thesecolumns; have you noticed the advertisement 4, 11,and 16 in the newspaper you have at your housedaily?MISS J. YOUNG wishes us to continue the Bio-graphical Sketches. This will be done from time totime.A CORRESPONDENT (Antediluvian) writes thatthe “Lonely Rock," a poem said to be anonymous,inserted in the August number (1856) of the Eng-LISH WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, is the composition of Mrs. Caroline Fry.A CORRESPONDENT wants a recipe for makingrhubarb wine.AN ADMIRER will find several recipes for gingerbeer in this number.A HOUSEKEEPER will find recipes for sauces inthis number.TUANNA will find her request attended to.S. A. E.- It depends upon the time you forwardedyour ticket.PANSY will find the recipe in this number.WM. SELKIRK.- 1, The distribution will take placenext month. 2, Volume III. of the Boy's OWNMAGAZINE will be published in December next,You should inclose a stamped envelope if you wishyour letters answered by post.E. A. M.- We think we can give you the informa-tion soon.EXCELSIOR. A printer would print you thealphabet for a trifle, say 3s. or 4s.MRS. CANSINS (Gibraltar).- The “Ladies' Bookof Fancy Work" is published by Mr. Jewitt, StrandIt contains every description of fancy work.A. M. M.- Yes.DARSSE.- 1, We prefer the full name and address.2, The plan you suggested was adopted with thetickets in Volume I., but most of them were lost bythe subscribers.DECLINED, WITH THANKS.- “Lucy and HerMother;” "The Quiet Hour."/* August 1857 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 4, p. 97-128) */In consequence of the great length to whichour tales and articles have extended this month,we are obliged to postpone till next month theinsertion of many valuable recipes and ThingsWorth Knowing, for which our best thanks are dueto such of our correspondents as have forwardedthem.S. A. E.- Your cheques, also your friend's, sharedin the last distribution.BERTHA.- See Correspondence page.S. H.- Let the knife and fork remain togetheron your plate.MARGARET.- We would oblige you if possible;but, to do so, would cost us about £50 per monthextra.MISS J. SEARLE.- Your cheque should have beennumbered 44,020.MISS THWAITES.- Your wish shall be gratified issome future number.A. W. Dison.- l. A situation as clerk in one ofthe Government offices would be the most suitablefor your friend. 2. No.RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- "Farewell to Scotland."PEARL.- It is merely imposition to pretend totell a lady's character by her handwriting. Wemust decline it. Pearl writes a lady-like hand.MAY.- Mrs. Pullan, Editress of the Work-tableDepartment, will supply you with the pattern.MISS E. MARTIN.- A very pretty guipure designfor the bottom of a lady's petticoat appeared in thenumber for April, 1857.WILSON.- 1. Spoonfulls. 2. Yes. 3. All dependswhether it is a habit or not. 4. Tap the stoppergently “with a piece of fire-wood;" keep turningthe bottle while so doing, and in five or ten minutesyou will find the stopper loose.E.C.- Yes, the cheques will be exchanged.EDITH.- 1. We will forward the number for May1856, on receipt of three postage stamps. 2. Yourletter reflects great credit on you, from the mannerin which it is written.RHUBARB WINE.- We have to thank the followinghad for excellent receipts for making rhubarb wine:A Subscriber, Miss Huish, and C. M. Richards./* September 1857 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 5, p. 129-160) */We have to thank Mrs. Pratt, Mrs. Boyce, S. S. C.,E. Russell, a Subscriber, Blanche, Miss Coley,Annette, M. S., and Miss Corbet, for their kind at-tention in sending many very valuable recipes. Wehope our fair friends will continue to send us theresults of their housekeeping knowledge and expe-riences, as one of our special aims is to render ourmagazine useful to our readers.A CORRESPONDENT desires to know the bestmethod of cooking tomatoes as a vegetable. Ano-ther desires a recipe for “Velvet Cream" and“Tipsy Cake."A CORRESPONDENT wishes to have some infor-mation on the subject of “Silk Patchwork.”MISS LINTON.- We shall be glad to see the answerto your charade and conundrum.N. M. DAY.- We will insert your wishes in ouradvertising columns. Terms, 9d. per line.MRS. PETERS.- See answer to N. M. Day.M. POPPLEWELL.- You must keep the chequestill the completion of the volume in April next.PICA.- We cannot advise you.M. TABOR.- You can have a copy forwarded postfree for 7s. 6d.EMMELINE.- We do not imagine it can possiblybe done, and feel sorry we cannot assist you.LAUREL.- We have numerous applications of thekind you name, and were it in our power we wouldwillingly complete your happiness by giving you allthe information.LILLY OF THE VALLEY JESSIE.- We have askedour subscribers for the receipt you require.E. NEWEUSH.- See answer to Jessie.RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- "To one Beloved;".“Lines to an Absentee;" "The Lost Child;" "ViolaGrey;" “Tears” (there is much feeling in this com-position); “Venice,” M. A. S.; J. Wilson Holme,“The Ballad of the Ladye Willoughby," Hor.Ep. II. ; “The Zephyr" (very pretty); “Howard's Last Visit;" “Lines written in an Album;" "Morn;"“The Monastery;" Aurd, or Dark Star Water;">“A Mother's Love;" “Cleopatra;" "A Pastoral;”"A Visit to the Monastery of Great St. Bernard;"“The Generous Pedlar."/* October 1857 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 6, p. 161-192) */RECEIPTS AND REMEDIES REQUIRED. 1. JESSY.- A good remedy for removing mildew spots from articles of underclothing.2. A SUBSCRIBER.- For making lemon solid to cut like lemon sponge, but of a beautiful bright yellow colour.3. ATHELI.- For washing crochet lace.4. S. P. S.- How to clean bonnet feathers and curl them.5. NON EST.- To make a good bandoline for the hair.6. IVEDON.- For cleaning Berlin woolwork. *** No letters can be answered in the next month's number which are received after the 15th of the month.MADELINE MARY.- It most likely arises from indigestion ; regular exercise should be taken. J. P.- Only to forward a specimen of your pro-duction. At the present time, being pressed withMS., the editor begs us to declineyour kind offer.GEORGINA.- Medicine and healthy exercise will,no doubt, remove the objection to your dear sisterbeing pretty; did we know any other remedy, how-ever "dear," we would certainly have the pleasureof making one lady happy.A. B. would feel obliged to any lady corre-spondent who would give full directions for starch-ing and ironing gentlemen's linen in the best pos-sible manner.MIGNIONETTE.- Only medicine will remove thecomplaint. We know of no other remedy.SABINE.- Send six stamps and we will forward"The Secret of Beauty." All books, from 6d. up-wards, we send post free.S. T.- On completion of the volume in Aprilnext. Write your name and address on the Maycheque only.E. BRAMPTON.- 10: 6: 57 means the 10th ofJune, 1857.UNFORTUNATE.- See “The Ladies' Companion tothe Toilet," price 6d., advertised in this month'snumber.E. GIE.- 1. The cheques for the fifth distribution,which is passed, we will exchange for the sixth, onreceiving them with a stamped envelope. 2. Willgive you the receipt next month. 3. The book isadvertised on the wrapper.NELLY.- On receipt of seven postage stamps wewill forward you “Fenning's Every Mother'sBook." (Every mother should have a copy. -Ed.)A. Z.- On receiving wedding cards you should, within a fortnight, send yours in return. It is notnecessary to send one to the bride and one to thebridegroom, although that course is sometimesadopted. If you are within a reasonable distanceof the dwelling of the married couple, and are veryintimate, you should call on them on their returnfrom their wedding trip, when you can leave yourcard. It is always expected that the first visitshould be paid to the happy pair, who, in theirturn, will call upon you./* November 1857 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 7, p. 193-224) */FORTUNATE SUBSCRIBERS.Many of the Fortunate Recipients of Gifts at the gift Distributions having omitted to acknowledge the receipt of their Gift to Mr. S. O. Beeton, are requested to do so without delay.ALL BOOKS POST FREE.MR. BEETON will forward, post free, all books that are published in London (from 6d, upwards) on receipt of the published, price, in Post-ofice order or postage stamps.THE SUBSCRIPTION.The subscription to receive the numbers for 12 months by post is 3s.; two or more copies, if for- warded together to one address, will be sent post free at the published price, thus our subscribers who reside at an inconvenient distance from their booksellers can receive their numbers by post regu- larly without extra charge.The subscription may be remitted in postage stamps or post-office order.TO TOWN SUBSCRIBERS.The publisher respectfully informs subscribersin town, that he will undertake to bind the ENG-LISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, or the BOY’SOWN MAGAZINE, at 1s. per volume, including coverand engraved frontispiece.*** No letters can be answered in next month'snumber that are received after the 15th of the month. M. COLVILL.- We have received the letter, con-taining four stamps. Please forward your address, and the answer will then be sent.J. KING.- No; we believe it to be the safest mode of beautifying the complexion.PIMPLE.- See the advertisement of James's Pills for the Complexion, &c.ACTOTE.- Which of these girls do you think theprettiest?S. BINGHAM.- Order of your bookseller theChristmas Prize.LONELY.- 1. If you purchase Volumes I., II., III,and V., you will be entitled to four shares in thenext distribution. 2. The balls you can obtain atmost of the fancy shops.SUSIE.- Price 2d., post free for three stamps.2, Miss Strickland's "Lives of the Queens of Eng-land” is published in twelve volumes, price £4 16s.complete.A PATIENT ENDURER.- See remedies for removingwarts, pp. 94, 351, 371. Volume I., ENGLISHWOMAN'SDOMESTIC MAGAZINE.TAPESTRY.- See No. 5, Vol. I. of the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, under the head ofThings Worth Knowing, “To Size and Gild Wood."Instead of preparing the articles, you can purchasethem already prepared, and thus save yourself avast amount of trouble.LOUISE.— 1. No 2. Should the gift be a one ortwo-guinea order, the holder can select for herself.3. You can have your numbers bound uniform withthe former volumes, by ordering the cover of yourbookseller and then any bookbinder in your neigh-bourhood should put the numbers in the case, for4d. or 6d.DEVONIA.- “Manual of Heraldry," 3s.EMMA LESS.- Nemesis is the god of vengeance.RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- C. A. B. C., "EdithMaurice;" "A Nickname, &c.,” M. M. Dawson;Ernesta, "The Italian Boy's Song;” Emma Less,"Lines on the Soul."We have to return our best thanks to MissBarclay, Mrs. Moore, Una, Tomato, Elfrida, MissAshby, Miss Corbett, Miss Woodward, Miss Fisher,and other kind correspondents, for their valuablerecipes. May we ask for some tried and goodreceipts for Christmas plum pudding, mincemeat,and other dishes in vogue during the approachingfestive season? We should like to receive theserecipes before the 15th of this month./* December 1857 May (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 8, p. 225-256) */ALL BOOKS AND MUSIC POST FREE. MR. BEETON will forward, post free, all books and music that are published in London (from 6d.upwards) on receipt of the published price, in Post-office order or postage stamps.HAVE YOUR NUMBERS HANDSOMELYBOUND FOR ONE SHILLING.To Town Subscribers.- The publisher respectfully informs subscribers in town, that he will undertaketo bind the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, or the BOY’S OWN MAGAZINE, at 1s. per volume, including cover and engraved frontispiece.*** No letters can be answered in next month's number that are received after the 15th of the month. *** The Editor cannot undertake to return re-jected manuscripts.ELFRIDA.- 1. Will give you the receipt next month.2. Cheques only share in the distribution for which they are sent.ANNE TAYLOR.- Price 1s., post free.ESPARELDO.- Will give you the recipe for chil-blains next month. The book you require is adver-tised on the wrapper.M. S.- At present our hands are full.ARABELLA.- If only slightly soiled, bread crumbs or India-rubber.TOM.- 1, Messrs. Deacon, Wallbrook. 2, Read well-written books.J. VEREY.- Not quite up to the mark. Shall be glad to see more of your verses, if convenient. C. DUNCAN.- A Post-office Directory will give you the information more explicitly than we could [] small space.bath," " Song of the Bereaved."PEGGY.- Cut the cheques up the centre, and for-ward the halves (printed "to be sent"), in Aprilnext, with your name on the May cheque, accordingto the directions given on the May wrapper.NELLY.- It is not quite feasible that we couldgive all a gift, unless we had an inexhaustible goldmine at our command.BOUND FOR ONE SHILLING.ROSALINE.- Read Macaulay's Essays. 2, Willend in April.CLEUSSA.- Camphor cake. Vol. II., p. 62.JULIET.- We do not know the colours. 2, Yourwriting is good. 3, Before meals.LALLA ROOKH.— 1, You should not answer theyoung gentleman's letters. 2, See the “Companionto the Toilet," advertised on the wrapper. 3, Weare not acquainted with the family, therefore cannotreply to your question.MISS BRIGGS.- Shall be glad to receive any taleyou may send, but cannot promise acceptance.EDITH LORAINE.- 1, We do not know of a remedy.2, The recipe will appear with others.W. F. T.- There is no specific finger.H. HARDING.- Become a pupil-teacher in yourown locality. Write to the Home and ColonialInstitution, Gray's Inn-road - the only society thatmight assist you.*** We have to thank White Rose, A DomesticatedSpinster, E. A. G., A Constant Reader, ProbatumEst, Mrs. B., E. Pickering, E. Russell, J. Carr, M.Ashling, S. Holdam, M. E. Fisher, L. Manger, andmany others, for several very excellent Christmasrecipes, some of which appear in the present number.RESPECTFULLY DECLINED._ "Lines on the Sab-bath," "Song of the Bereaved."/* January 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 9, p. 257-288)Entire number is missing from Hathi Trust /UCLA scan, which is the only one with peripheral material for this volume (and thus NTC) *//*February 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 10, p. 289-320) */G. HORRIBLE.- 1. See BOY’S OWN MAGAZINENo. 4, Vol. III.A. HARDING.- 1, You will please forward thecheques before June next. The cheques for thefive Volumes will entitle you to five shares. 3,The new Volume of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE will be published on the 15th of March, price 2s. 60., post free.C. CAMPION.- 1, Procure two pennyworth of the solution at the same place as you purchased the gutta percha soles. 2, You cannot place the soles on goloshes.LAURUSTINUS.- 1, Our engagements with con- tributors are completed for some time to come. Your suggestion is correct. 2, We cannot name any particular publication. Write to the editors ofseveral, such as “Chambers's Journal," "London Journal," "Family Herald,” &c.IDA. - It is rather difficult to obtain a goodsituation as English teacher on the Continent unless you have friends to assist you. Try anadvertisement in the papers.M. W.- Cut out the cheques from each completed volume, according to the directionsgiven on the cheque containing the number. 2, Each set of cheques confers a chance.DECLINED WITH THANKS- “To Eliza;” “Song to the Snow;" “An Idle Student's Regret;”"Sketches from Village Life;". "Greek Superstition;" “Aunt Janet's Charades" (very interest-ing).M. L. G.- You did not mention which Magazine.We presume you refer to this. If so, forward thecheques before next June. You will be entitled toa share in the distribution.SOPHIA.- About 15s., suitable to place on a tablein a parlour or drawing-room.A SUBSCRIBER.- Put a small piece of loaf sugarin your starch. Do not iron your articles too dry. S. W. L. G.- Modelling wax is prepared bymelting virgin wax with a very small quantity ofVenice turpentine and flake white, in fine powder.If coloured wax is used, a colour in fine powdermust be substituted for the flake white.HAMBURG.– See the present number. Will giveyou the other receipt soon.L. M. T.- Send a paper to the Editor, with anote./* March 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 11, p. 321-352) */A YOUNG DRESSMAKER.— You must send in your cheque on completion of the volume. Write your name and address on the May cheque. RECEIPTS REQUIRED.Our correspondents will oblige us by forwardingthe following receipts for insertion:_ 1. How toMake Mangel Wurzel Wine. 2. To Make CandiedLemon Peel. 3. Making Sweet Hams. 4. To CleanErmine Victorines, &c.FLORENCE ADA.- “Messiah," 38.; Gems selectedfrom the Works of the Great Master,” 28. 6d. Thebeautiful prayer from "Mose in Egitto" (as sung atthe Crystal Palace Concerts), 3s.E. HOWARD.- The privilege is now discontinued.M. D. BERMONDSEY.- No; we only give thepattern for our subscribers to work from.ELLEN DEMAIRA.-If you send the cheques asper directions given on the cheque for May, youwill be entitled to share in the annual distributionof 400 guineas.A Housewife.-See pages 126 and 350, vol. IIENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE.A CONSTANT READER.-See Nos. 1 and 3, vol. IV,ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE.RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- S. S. C.; “The Un-happy Bride” (as usual, pretty); “On a WeddingRing;” “The Happy Land;" Julia Cecilia Norman;"The Sailor's Return;" " Waiting;" “ Hymn to OldAge;" “ To the Princess Royal.”/* April 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 6, No. 12, p. 353-384) */*** No letters can be answered in next month's Number that are received after the 15th of the month.*** The Editor cannot undertake to return re-cieved manuscripts.A SUBSCRIBER.- The receipt will be given nextmonth. [].- Your request will be attended to in the next number.FANNY.- Your wish will be complied with.MARY.- Next month.MARIANNE.- We cannot, we regret, assist youin the matter.RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- Marion Norton"Forget Me Not" and "I Love to Think ofThee" (they are equal, we think, in point ofversification and rhythm); Ellen, "Farewell tothe Princess Royal."/* The Englishwoman’s Domestic MagazineFirst Series, Volume 7 Correspondence Sections as Plain Text Link here: https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=uc1.a0007302177&view=1up&seq=14&skin=2021Prepared by Julie M. Sorge WayPreparation notes: transcribed [period][em-dash] as .- for consistency in each entry *//* May 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 1, p. 1-32) 2 pages of “To Correspondents” is in the end matter. */THE NEW VOLUME:The New Volume of the ENGLISHWOMAN'SDOMESTIC MAGAZINE is now ready, handsomelybound in cloth, lettered, also Engraved Frontis-piece, price 2s. 6d. To prevent disappointment,ladies are requested to give their orders at once totheir booksellers, or send 30 postage stamps to theOffice, when the New Volume will be forwarded post free. CLOTH COVERS FOR THE NEW VOLUME. Cloth cases for binding the numbers, with gilt lettering are now ready, price 8d., post free. Orderof your bookseller early, or send 8 postage stampsto the office.Cases for Volumes I., II., III., IV., V., with Engraved Titles and Frontispieces, are still on sale, 9d. each. By purchasing the Cases, subscribers can have their numbers converted into handsome volumes.*** Vols. 1., II., III, IV, and V. are still on sale, price 2s. 6d. each, post free. Ladies, by purchasing the six volumes, will be entitled to six chances inthe Sixth Annual Distribution, next August, ofFour Hundred Guineas' worth of Gold Watches, Chains, &c., &c., making the magnificent sum ofTwo Thousand Four Hundred and Forty-fiveGuineas distributed amongst the subscribers in sixyears.LAURA.- "My Brother's Keeper," 1s., * Hills ofthe Shatemuc," 1s. 6d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., 6s.STINGER.- The holder of a fortunate cheque, after the distribution, can have goods supplied to the amount of the gift from any of the firms named. F. C. R.- Send the cheques “to be sent;" see the directions on last May cheque.H. S. MILLS.- The number should have been d6039, being the number we have given you.LUCY JANE.- It is merely an imposition.KING PIPPIN.- We do not know the meaning. J. F. W.- We should like to hear more from you on “the Economy of Dress," and should be glad of the paper by Miss Taylor, of which you speak.We have to thank Miss S. Beale, Louise, E-a,Miss Emma Springley, A Lady from Nottingham, Mrs. B., E. A. C. (shall be glad of more), Miss Emma H. Stanley, Constantine, and Heliotrope, fortheir very valuable and varied recipes. They will prove to our readers, we know, a great acquisition,and we earnestly hope that all ladies who havegood recipes will spare a little time for the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, and copy themfor us.ROSE BUD.- Use it in a lump.GEORGIANNA.- We cannot, in justice, recommend you anything that will have the wished for effect. Be contented as you are.YOUR GRATEFUL CLARA.- We can only recom-mend you to apply to the London publishers of translated books. Clara is not the only one that applies to us when in a similar dilemma, and happyshould we be if it were in our power to assist ourfair petitioners.J. C. H. NEVILL.- Make no difference. We are happy to hear you have changed your name; may you enjoy much happiness.S. MORISSON.- The history of Sardinia will be included with others, in BEETON'S HISTORIAN, price one penny, weekly.W. SEVILLE.- Much obliged. We should have added to the explanation - "no cheques are num-bered under 10,000"AGNES.- All the back numbers may be had, price 2d. each. Two or more sent post free.MISS C. S.- As soon as our space will admit, we will give the pattern required.PENELOPE.- Miss Ferguson, 157, Sloane-street, Chelsea, S.W.AUGUSTA S.- You do not say what the edging isto be suitable for. You want more practice inwriting.E. SMITH.- Shall be given shortly.MRS. H. D.- The price of the paper pattern isTo prevent disappointment, 3s. 6d.MRS. J. MASON.- Probably in our next.HYDE MANELUS.- The pattern may be procuredof Miss Ferguson. See answer to PENELOPE.AN OLD SUBSCRIBER (Poole).- In an early num-ber. A TWO YEARS' SUBSCRIBER.- We are working anew basket, and, as soon as finished, will put it in our Magazine.  A SUBSCRIBER.- Shall be attended to.A SUBSCRIBER (Park Fields).- Square netting isdone exactly the same as diamond netting, withthe exception that it is commenced at one cornerwith one stitch, and increased by doing two in oneat each row, until the required width is obtained.GODIVA.- A pattern for a fire-paper would takeup too much space. Any articles are suitable forBazaars, such as worked card baskets, watchpockets, penwipers, purses, &c. &c.A SCOTTISH READER.- Very shortly.LILY (WOLVERHAMPTON).- Tight and closed upsleeves will be worn; we will give a pattern in goodtime.ADA.- Yes.KINDER SCOUT.- Every purchaser of twelvenumbers, or a bound volume, is entitled to a chance.See the advertisement in the present number.W. APPLEFORD.- The list is printed for thespecial purpose of subscribers who dislike wait-ing till the September number is published (wethen give the list gratis), therefore a subscriberpurchasing the volumes, or wishing to have the listbefore the publication of the September number,should, we think, contribute towards the expense.MARGERETTA.- Will endeavour to oblige younext month.RESPECTFULLY DECLINED,- "Eva's Dream," byW. and J.; Zeno; "The Child's Wish;" D. T. St.Ninians (we think the verses very pretty, but theyare rather too "Scotch" for general readers);Marianne; “Reveries" (these verses are very muchbetter than many we are in the habit of receiving;although not sufficiently polished to be printed,yet they possess much feeling and grace); “TheHour of Death,” &c.PRIZE QUOTATIONS FROM THEPOETS.SUBJECT FOR JUNE MAGAZINE- "HOPE.”We beg to announce that a handsome GuineaVolume will be awarded to our Subscribers for thebest quotations from the poets on "Hope.” Thepapers must be sent in on or before the 15th inst.,written on one side of the paper only. They mustnot occupy less than two columns of print, or morethan four. Each paper should be accompanied bythe name and address of the writer, but if publicityis not desired, a nom de plume must be added./* June 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 2, p. 33-64)Entire number is missing from Hathi Trust /UCLA scan, which is the only one with peripheral material for this volume (and thus NTC) *//* July 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 3, p. 65-96) */ANXIOUS.- 1. See No. 8, Vol. IV., ENGLISH- WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, for depilatories. 2. About sixteen. 3. Simply bow and take the seat offered by your guest.E. B.- It is a mere matter of taste.E. WADDINGTON.- Within eight days. See notice above to country subscribers.MRS. REEDHAM.- Send three postage stamps.C. J. HARTLEY.- We acknowledged the safe receiptof cheques by post, but, owing to the imperfectaddress which you gave, the letter has been returnedto us.C. RADDENS.- See BOY'S OWN MAGAZINE, No.31, Vol. IV.EMMA.- Yes,BLINK BONNY.- Could not say until we read it.RECEIPTS.- B. P. A. E. We have to thank thelady for her receipts; F. H. K. we beg to thankalso; Miss Pearson, L. C. Williams, Miss F.Fletcher, J. A. Brooke, M, H. Thompson, DotE. T., have also kindly sent receipts.RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- “The Bridesmaid andthe Bride;" “Verses to W.”FANNY.— You are not required to return a cardS.T.- Yes.ESTHER.- There are several Protestant churches in Paris, bat not sufficient for the English population. A meeting was held last month by the British resi-dents in Paris, at Maurice's Hotel, respecting the purchase of the church, Rue d'Aguessau. About one-half of the purchase money has been already subscribed.HER CEN.- Against rules. Yes.ALEX. HAY.- Always kept in stock.ANTONIO.- Yes.B. CLARA.- Both words tend to the same meaning. A.G.M.- No.A. LITTLE.- 1. See plan of the Ballot in the number for last April. 2. The names and addressesof the fortunate subscribers appears annually in theSeptember numbers.L. N.- We fear that the description would beToo long for the limits of our Magazine; andindependently of this reason, there are noveltieswhich have entirely superseded this sort of work.E. W.- We wish we could comply with everyrequest as soon as it is made; but, as the arrange-ments of our Magazine require to be made earlyin the month, this is not always possible. Wecan only say that we shall always be anxious tofulfil our subscribers' wishes as promptly as pos-sible./* August 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 4, p. 97-128) */TO CORRESPONDENTS.LUCY E.- We believe the custom arose from Lady Montague giving them an annual dinner on the 1st of May.B. B. AND S. E.- The right arm.PRIMROSE.- 1. It is not in the power of man to help you. 2. We must decline discussing any question on religion.B.M.C.- Yes.B.G.- Yes.S. S. MILNE.- Exchanged for No. 51,273. EMMA R.- 1. No doubt you made the solution too strong. 2. We will endeavour to oblige you next month.EFFIE C.-Received.JESSEY.- 1. Will next month, if possible. 2. Yes3. Will be inserted.SHIRLEY.- Will give you the instructions nextmonth.LOVE.- An old writer says that if a gentleman iswishing for a wife, he wears a ring on the first fingerof the left hand; and when engaged, on the secondfinger; if married, on the third; and on the fourth,if obstinately refuses to be married. When a ladyis not engaged, she wears a hoop or diamond on thefirst finger; if engaged, on her second; if married,on her third; and on the fourth, if she intends todie an old maid./* September 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 5, p. 129-160)No end correspondence visible in the HT peripheral material. Possibly missing, likely not there to begin with, as there were small bits in the Work-Table section. *//* October 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 6, p. 161-192) */GERTY.- Yes.BROWN, MISS.- We expect to meet a few dis-satisfied persons in the world who are not contented with anything; we are sorry to be compelled toinclude you in the number. JUANITA.- Rise early of a morning, take plentyof exercise, and use an abundance of cold water(don't put a little warm in it, just to take thechill off). You will find this, no doubt, have thedesired effect. We don't believe the remainder of your letter at all. RECEIPTS FOR MAKING SOUPS.- As the season isnow fast approaching when soups are usually con-sidered very suitable to be served, we shall be gladif those ladies who have a goodly array of receiptsfor making them will kindly send them to us forinsertion in early numbers of the ENGLISHWOMANS'DOMESTIC MAGAZINE./* November 1858 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 7, p. 192-224) */ANNETTE.- We do not think it exactly suitablefor the magazine. If you purchase the correctedition of it it is worth reading, otherwise it is not.J. BAILEY.- Mr. Gilling, North John street, orMr. Shepherd, Scotland-road, will be most happy toserve you. LIZZY.- Send the cheques and a stamped envelope.We will change them for this year's. JENNY THOM.- A pair of embroidered slippers, asmoking cap (if he smokes), or a hair chain. RECEIPTS.- Our thanks are due to Miss B. Simp-son, Mrs. Wigens, E.A.Y., and M. Young for re-ceipts which they have kindly forwarded us. /* December 1858 May (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 8, p. 225-256) */A CONSTANT SUBSCRIBER.- It can be done, butnot without taking the keys off, which would berather more expensive than needful for so simple areason.A STAFFORDSHIRE GIRL.- 1. Nom de plume. 2.By perseverance under a master, or by constantapplication. 3. For the full five years. 4. No.5. There are many to choose from, it is difficult tosay.NON EST.- Non est inventas (from the Latin),He has not been found.B. STUBBS.— You do not state what kind of fancywork.B.- You can purchase of most doctors cake orpowders to answer the purpose.M. A. M.- The most fashionable promenade cos-tume for a young lady of the age specified is theCossack pardessus. These were first introduced inParis, and have received the approbation of theQueen, being now worn by the younger Princessesof the Royal Family, They are made to fit thefigure, the body and skirt being cut all in one, thatis, the back and the fronts are not in pieces sepa-rated from each other at the waist. The sleeves arelong, and hanging tight at the top and wide at thebottom. The material must be cloth. Mixturesare much in favour. Mantles are not now worn byyoung ladies.MATILDA.- For so large an undertaking, it ishighly necessary to procure the best materials, asit would be a great disappointment to find the worklook coarse and rough after passing through thehands of the laundress. To guard against this, werecommend that Messrs. Walter Evans and Co's.Boar's Head Crochet Cotton should be used. Num-ber twelve will be the most suitable size.A CONSTANT READER.- We are extremely sorrythat this communication did not reach us in timefor the request to be complied with this month. Wecannot promise an illustration, but the directionsshall be supplied in our next number./* January 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 9, p. 257-288)No Correspondents page in the Hathi Trust end matter scanned in *//* February 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 10, p. 289-320) */G. HORRIBLE.- 1, See BOY'S OWN MAGAZINENo. 4, Vol. IIIA. HARDING.- 1, You will please forward thecheques before June next. The cheques for thefive Volumes will entitle you to five shares. 2, The new Volume of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE will be published on the 15th of March,price 2s. 6d., post free.C. CAMPION.- 1, Procure two pennyworth of the solution at the same place as you purchased the gutta percha soles. 2, You cannot place the soles on goloshes.LAURUSTINUS.- 1, Our engagements with con-tributors are completed for some time to come. Your suggestion is correct. 2, We cannot nameany particular publication. Write to the editors ofseveral, such as "Chambers's Journal," “ LondonJournal,” “Family Herald,” &c.IDA.- It is rather difficult to obtain a goodsituation as English teacher on the Continent unless you have friends to assist you. Try anadvertisement in the papers.M. W.- 1, Cut out the cheques from each completed volume, according to the directions given on the cheque containing the number. 2, Each set of cheques confers a chance.DECLINED WITH THANKS.- "To Eliza;" “Song to the Snow;" "An Idle Student's Regret;":“Sketches from Village Life;" “ Greek Super-stition;" "Aunt Janet's Charades" (very interest-ing).M. L. G.- You did not mention which Magazine.We presume you refer to this. If so, forward thecheques before next June. You will be entitled toa share in the distribution.SOPHIA.- About 15s., suitable to place on a tablein a parlour or drawing-room.A SUBSCRIBER.- Put a small piece of loaf sugarin your starch. Do not iron your articles too dry.S. W. L. G.- Modelling wax is prepared bymelting virgin wax with a very small quantity ofVenice turpentine and flake white, in fine powder.If coloured wax is used, a colour in fine powdermust be substituted for the flake white.HAMBURG.- See the present number. Will giveyou the other receipt soon.L. M. T.- Send a paper to the Editor, with anote./* March 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 11, p. 321-252) */CAROLINE.- See advertisement on the wrapper ofthis number.ANNIE.- 1. Thanks for your letter. 2. From Mayto April. 3. If possible.C. W. SIMKIN.- L. E. Landon's "Improvisatriceand other Poems," is published at 10s. 6d. We willsend it post free.MISS M. S. WATSON AND OTHER LADIES.- Pleasereceive our best thanks for the recipes you have sokindly forwarded. LAURA.- See ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGA-ZINE, Vol. VI., No. 6.MARIA.- Unless you have sufficient servants, theguests had better help themselves to the wine.Puddings and tarts can, of course, be eaten withspoons. Ladies may drink wine.CLARA B.- We wish we could.VANITAS.- Same as Clara B.JUDY.- Apply to the Secretary of the Ear Dis-pensary, Dean-street, Soho./* April 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 7, No. 12, p. 353-376) */A SUBSCRIBER.- The receipt will be given next month. S. POWELL.- Your request will be attended to inthe next number.FANNY.- Your wish will be complied with.MARY.- Next month.MARIANNE.- We cannot, we regret, assist youin the matter.RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- Marion []"Forget Me Not" and "I Love to Think ofThee" (they are equal, we think, in point ofversification and rhythm); Ellen, "Farewell tothe Princess Royal."/* The Englishwoman’s Domestic MagazineFirst Series, Volume 8 Correspondence Sections as Plain Text Link here: https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=uc1.a0007302177&view=1up&seq=509&skin=2021Prepared by Julie M. Sorge WayPreparation notes: transcribed [period][em-dash] as .- for consistency in each entry *//* May 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 1, p. 1-32) */PRIZE QUOTATIONS FROM THEPOETS.SUBJECT FOR JULY MAGAZINE-"GRIEF."We beg to announce that a handsome guinea volume will be awarded for the best selection of quotations from the poets on “Grief.” In order to give our correspondents sufficient time forselection, June 5th will be the last day to receive the quotations. These must be written on one sideof the paper only, and must not occupy less thantwo columns of print, or more than four: We should like also the dates of the births and deathsof the poets to be given, and the titles of the poemsfrom which the quotations are made. Each papershould be accompanied by the name and address of the writer, and, if publicity is not desired, a nom de plume must be added./* Omitting list of names of winners here. */We beg our fair correspondents to put their realor feigned signature on the last fly-leaf of what theysend us, and to remember that every one of their packages will come for one penny stamp, provided it is left open at the ends and does not exceed 1/4 lb. /* Omitting long list of names of winners here. */BELLA.- Yes, we will exchange them for the cur-rent year.YOUNG GLASGOW.- Read the prospectus of Beeton'sDictionary.E. L. L. (Rochdale.).— Exchanged for 7th distribu-tion, No. 52117.W. B.- You have been misinformed.R. S. (Rose Cottage.)- Will give the receipt, ifpossible, next month.A CONSTANT SUBSCRIBER.- See No. 3, Vol. IV.,ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE.IGENNONNE.- See page 94, Vol. V., ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE.MISS WEAVER.- Send part of the wrapper.MARTHA ALLETT.- We should hardly like to ad-vise on such a point; it would be better to consulta friend.MISS WHITTAKER, Mrs. Smiles, A Sinauor, Mrs.Young, Miss Hall, T. A. G., A. M. B. (StreathamCommon), S. H. Watkins, Helen Hope, Lucy M.,Mrs. A. Williams, E. G. R., L. Withers, A Sub-scriber (Jersey), Mrs. Geo. Cook, Miss M. Briers,Henetta, Mrs. Brough, E. A. Soame, Mrs. B. Smith,Miss Keeling, Aggie, E. Ruston, Miss Robinson,T. Shaw, and E. A. Wraith. Please receive ourbest thanks for the receipts so kindly forwarded./* June 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 2, p. 33-64)No correspondents section visible in this scan - last page with cheque is all ads *//* July 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 3, p. 65-96)Missing from Hathi Trust *//* August 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 4, p. 97-128) */NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS./* Omitting announcement of Distribution of Gifts, 1859 with instructions */MISS BULL.-  1. We never heard of them being bought, not even for waste paper. 2. You can pur- chase books from 1s. upwards. 3. Write to the advertiser.MISS KERSEY.- Yes.JANET MORICE.- Cut the paper the size re- quired, and then dip in the egg. 2. Will endeavour to do so. MRS. MERFIELDS.- You can have the cover on receipt of eight stamps.MARY GOULD.- We have no space at present, and must decline your MS.EDITH.- Only on the May cheque, according to the printed directions thereon.FANNY JACOB.- Don't despair, you are not the only disappointed one.BELL.- We must have the May cheque; it con- tains the number; the others are useless without it. DOLLY.- The address you will find in last month's Magazine.EMMA.- To get rid of moths, procure shavings ofcedar wood and place in a few small muslin bags,then place them where the moths are. If the mothsare in woollen cloth, use a solution of acetate ofpotash in spirits of rosemary, fifteen grains to thepint.A SUBSCRIBER.- 1. Your brother would be entitledto claim the houses and all other landed property;the business, and all personal property, would beequally divided between the other children. Shouldyour mother be living, she would be entitled to one-third of the personal property. 2. The master couldpunish your brother, and he is also bound to teachhim his trade according to the agreement.E. D. (West Indies.)- Your letter, &c., came safe.The cheques must always be received here by the1st of August. You can have the chance next year.Will endeavour to give you the receipt.PARAMATTA.- Received.JAMES WEAKLEY.- Yes./* September 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 5, p. 129-160)No personal responses, just ads and record keeping  *//* October 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 6, p. 161-192)Last page with cheque is present but has no correspondence *//* November 1859 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 7, p. 193-224)Missing from Hathi Trust *//* December 1859 May (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 8, p. 225-256)Missing from Hathi Trust *//* January 1860 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 9, p. 257-288)Missing from Hathi Trust *//* February 1860 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 10, p. 289-320)Missing from Hathi Trust *//* March 1860 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 11, p. 321-352)Missing from Hathi Trust *//* April 1860 (Series 1, Vol. 8, No. 12, p. 353-384) */NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS.Subscribers are now requested to send in their Cheques complete (from May, 1859, to April, 1860,inclusive), with their names and addresses legibly written on the May, 1859, Cheque, in order to insuretheir chance in the Eighth Annual Distribution of Gifts, which will take place next August. All theNumbers and Volumes are now in print, from the commencement of the work. Subscribers wishingto complete their sets, or requiring numbers to complete their Volumes, can have them forwarded, postfree, on receipt of postage stamps or Post-office order. A single number will be sent post free for 3d.*** A list of the Gift-holders will be forwarded immediately after the Distribution, to all whoinclose two Postage Stamps with their Cheques.HAVE YOUR NUMBERS HANDSOMELY BOUND FOR ONE SHILLING. To Town Subscribers.--The publisher respect-fully informs subscribers in town that he will bindthe ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE or theBOY'S OWN MAGAZINE at 1s. per volume, includingcover and engraved frontispiece.CLOTH COVERS FOR THE NEW VOLUME. Cloth cases for binding the numbers, are nowready, price 8d., post free. Order of your book-seller early, or send eight postage stamps to theoffice. A HOUSEMAID.- New Zealand or South Aus-tralia would be better than America.A SUBSCRIBER (Peckham).- Will find all the information required in "Beeton's Book ofHousehold Management," published monthly, price 3d. ANN WHATHAM.- It is not mentioned in HolyScripture.E. MONGER.- Send them on completion of thevolume. See notice above.TIT.- Respectfully declined for want of space.M. E. S. (Abington).- The best plan would beto write to the editor of Excelsior," and othermagazines of that character.A. JACKSON.— We have no opening at present. A NEW SUBSCRIBER.- 1. Yes. 2. Very seldom before the 1st of June.LILIAN S.- You will see, by last month's an-nouncement, that the Prize Compositions will becontinued.E. J. J.- Write to Messrs. Gatti and Co., Cop-pice-row, Clerkenwell, who are the manufac-turers of the articles you require.MIGNON.- Each set of cheques entitles you to achance in the distribution.E. E. W.- Manuscripts are sometimes accepted,but we have a regular staff of contributors.MYRTLE.- Mrs. Markham, in her "History ofEngland," thus explains the origin of the term"John Bull.” She says. "I am told that thisname cannot be traced beyond Queen Ann'stime, when a satire, entitled "The History ofJohn Bull," was written by Dr. Arbuthnot; theobject of it being to throw ridicule on the politicsof the Spanish succession. John Bull is the Eng-lishman, the Frog is the Dutchman, and CharlesII. of Spain, and Louis XIV., are called LordStrut and Louis Baboon."/* The Englishwoman’s Domestic MagazineSecond Series, Volume 1 Correspondence Sections as Plain Text Link: Series 2 Volumes 1-3 in one Google Books PDF here https://www.google.com/books/edition/The_Englishwoman_s_domestic_magazine_Imp/mGUEAAAAQAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0Volume note: Volumes change in this new series, to 6 months (and 6 numbers) rather than 12 per volume. So the year is now two volumes. Each number is now 48 rather than 32 pages long, and the size of the paper is larger.Prepared by Julie M. Sorge WayPreparation notes: Line breaks preserved from the original *//* May 1860 (Series 2, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 1-48)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione (Not Notes To Correspondents, longer and a part of the paginated  magazine now), last page, p. 48 - PDF page 55 */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONEJ. PURR.- Our corre-spondent, not a young lady, we think, is in a terrible frightabout our going to war withFrance, or France going to warwith us. She thinks, she says, if we haveno objection, that the first is the best; bywhich we fancy she means that we hadbetter go to war in France. Yes, thatcertainly would be the better plan; for noEnglishman or Englishwoman would like tosee Napoleon's Zouaves, and the Chasseurs deVincennes, quartered in the pleasant corn-fields of Sussex, or turning the Kentish hop-polesinto tent-poles. And then, too, terrible question- most terrible of all questions - where wouldour ladies get, how could they get, when could they get, that without which we are perfectly assured that no young maid, or middle-aged matron, could do without - the Paris fashions; es-pecially now they have once seen them engraved, printed, and painted so beautifully in this magazine? No, Miss J. Purr (does she mean j'ai peur?) the force of fashion alone, we believe, and the immenseinterests connected with the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, would keep this nation from a war with France. This is in entire confidence;but we hereby give each of our readers permissionto impart the secret to her husband, brother, orlover (yes), so that he may take it into account in his next operations on the Stock Exchange,and, as a return for the information, present herwith a new silk dress (now the duty is off, they don'tcost much) and a set of the eight volumes of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE already pub-lished. GEORGIANA.- Be kind enough to send your realname and address. These must always accompanyevery letter, not necessarily for publication, but asa pledge of the good faith of the writer. MILLICENT TURNBULL.- "Wayside Weeds andForest Flowers" will be commenced in our next number. The first part will be devoted to direc-tions for collecting, examining, drying, and pre-serving wild-flowers. CAROLINE.- You are not quite right in yourestimate of Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough. Herbeauty was always of the scornful and imperiouskind, and her features and air announced nothing thather temper did not confirm; both together, her beautyand temper, enslaved her heroic lord, who, though so great a general in the field, was as nothing in his own house. One of her principal charms was a prodigious abundance of fine fair hair. One day, ather toilette, being in anger with him, she cut off her commanding tresses and flung them in his face. Nor did her insolence stop there, nor stop till it hadtotally estranged and worn out the patience of the poor Queen, her mistress. The Duchess was oftenseen to give her Majesty her fan and gloves, andturn away her own head, as if the Queen had offen-sive smells. Incapable of due respect to her supe-riors, it was no wonder she treated her children andinferiors with supercilious contempt. Her eldestdaughter, the Countess Godolphin, and she werelong at variance, and never, indeed, reconciled. With her youngest daughter, the Duchess of Mon-trose, old Sarah, as Walpole calls her, agreed asill. "I wonder," said the Duke of Marlboroughto them, "that you cannot agree, you are somuch alike." (That was the reason they couldnot, we should say.) Of her granddaughter, the Duchess of Manchester, daughter of the Duchessof Montagu, she affected to be fond. One day shesaid to her, "Duchess of Manchester, you are a goodcreature, and I love you mightily - but you have a mother!" "And she has a mother," answered theDuchess of Manchester, who was all spirit, justice,and honour, and could not suppress sudden truth, In these days, as you suggest, we are not so out-spoken; it is ill-bred, remember, either to argue,suggest a contradiction, or have a mind of your own. STAR-GAZER.- "The Poetry of the Months," youwill see, is commenced in this number. Poems on "June" will be printed in the June number; on"July," in July, and so on. Each paper should besent to the office on or before the 5th of the month preceding that in which the poems will be printed. ENQUIRER.- Mr. Augustus Mayhew, whose grace-ful fun we don't wonder at your admiring, will con-tribute a series of papers, under the title of "Mrs.Letts's Diary. Including the opinions of a youngand tender wife. Edited by a lady of thirty years' vast experience. Prepared for the press by AugustusMayhew." EMMA E.- You like, of course, to be "in the fashion." No young lady of sense and positionwishes to be unlike her sisters and her cousins. Itisn't in human nature that she should. In reply to your query respecting bonnets, we have to say thatthe reign of small bonnets is extinct; that dynasty is dethroned to give way to much larger-sized ones, which come considerably forward over the head, and have a somewhat "coal-scuttle" appearance in front, while the back of the bonnet is composed of a "loose crown," So, if a young gentleman givento punning asks you to lend him five shillings, youcan't now be able to reply that you haven't a loosecrown about you. Mothers, therefore, beware!ADA S.- We agree with you in thinking that the horrid little London boys are a very great nuisanceindeed; but we fear Sir Peter Laurie, with all his alderman's horses and all his alderman's men, can't put them down. That the amplitude of your crino-line should have been treated, as you say, by a number of little boys, posted at regular distances in Chancery-lane, as they would have treated their common iron hoops, is too much for us to bear. We hope you will have more mercy on our nerves infuture than to tell us of such horrible war-whoops. MARIAN HETHERIDGE.- We shall be happy toreceive the selections from your album, and hopeothers of our friends will grant us a peep into someof their treasures in this way; for we are convinced that clever jeux d'esprit and interesting impromptusare lying perdus in the pages of many a young lady's album. Open their beauties into the world, fairreaders, and be generous in extending to the thou-sands who read the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE that which has hitherto charmed but a small circle. What you allude to, we fancy, are thelines written by the poet Campbell to a young ladywho asked him to write "something original" for her album. And original something, fair maid, you would win meTo write - but how shall I begin? For I fear I have nothing original in meExcepting Original Sin. If the selections from your album are not lessclever than the above, we think you may depend on seeing them in print. MRS. GORE (Reading).- We admit that that is a apart of the newspaper which we always avoid, for we cannot own to any liking for reading of thebrutal murders which, it is a strange thing to ob-serve, so many of the weaker sex prefer to becomeacquainted with. You speak in your letter of an act of coolness, but we don't think it is equal to what occurred in the case of a footman of Lord Dacre, who was hanged, as nearly as possible, a hundred years ago, for murdering his fellow-ser-vant, the butler. George Selwyn had a great handin bringing him to confess his crime, and you may imagine the coolness of the wretch from the factthat, as he was writing his confession, he stopped at"I murd-," and asked, "How do you spell murdered?" /* June 1860 (Series 2, Vol. 1, No. 2, p. 49-96)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 96 - PDF page 107 */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONEANNA.- The Lent fast was called by theLatins Quadragesima; butwhether on account of its beingoriginally a fast of forty days oronly forty hours, has been much disputedamong the learned. About three cen-turies ago, in a small village among theApennines, the priest was so ignorantthat, not being himself aware of the annualfeasts, he never announced them to his con-gregation. Having, one day, visited a dis-tant town, he saw the priests preparing theirbranches of olive and palm for next day, and foundhe had forgotten to announce Lent to his flock. Returning eight days afterwards, he caused the palm-branches to be gathered, and, addressing hiscongregation, said, "To-morrow, my friends, isPalm Sunday. Easter will take place next week;we shall fast during this week only, for Lent hascome later this year, in consequence of the coldweather and bad roads. CLARA WHITEBOY.- We can quite enter into yourhorror of the system of slavery, the "peculiar institution" of our cousins across the Atlantic; but there is something to be said for the Southeners,notwithstanding, but which we are not going to bore you with here. One of the most stinging sarcasms ever hurled against the United States waswritten by Thomas Campbell, not many yearssince, in reference to their banner, which displays"Stars and Stripes" - United States, your banner wearsTwo emblems - one of fame;Alas! the other that it bearsReminds us of your shame. Your standard's constellation typesWhite freedom by its stars; But what's the meaning of the stripes? They mean your negroes' scars. Surely your name, Miss Whiteboy, must be assumed. MRS. JAMES PICKWORTH.- You complain of our English hotels, and don't like English travelling.Well, the hotels are not good - that is, they might easily be much better - although we do know aninn or two in the country where adulteration is not altogether the watchword, and the charges arefairly within the mark. You like the Continentalhotels better, you say. Well, there is certainlygood administration at the Louvre, in Paris, andwe had more than one most excellent petit souperat the Guldenstern, at Bonn, on the Rhine, at whoseUniversity the present Prince Consort was educated. Possibily, however, you may not have been beyond the route usually "done" by tourists; and here the hotel-keepers prepare for the best customers, theproud Islanders, with all their taste and elegancy. But go further; pass into the far-off towns butseldom visited except by some adventurous andeccentric Briton, then will you write to your frienda letter something in the frame of mind in whichHorace Walpole found himself when writing, more than a hundred years since, to Sir Horace Mann. His letter is dated Newmarket, 1743. He says, "I am writing to you in an inn on the road to London. What a paradise should I have thought this whenI was in the Italian inns! - in a wide barn, withfour ample windows, which had nothing more likeglass than shutters and iron bars! No tester to the bed, and the saddles and portmanteaus heapedon me to keep off the cold. What a paradise did I think the inn at Dover when I came back! andwhat magnificence were twopenny prints, salt-cellars, and boxes to hold the knives! but thesummum bonum was small-beer and the newspaper. I bless'd my stars, and call'd it luxury. There is the slightest possible suspicion in ourminds that "a trip on the Continent" is one of the shams of the day, and that many a pater and mater-familias would, by keeping within the limits of theUnited Kingdom, enjoy themselves better, spend lessmoney, and add something to the usually very smallamount of knowledge they possess of British geo-graphy, topography, manners and customs, beyonda circle of some ten miles from their own suburban villa. Believe us, that here is the valleys of Eng-land , the mountains of Wales, the locks of Scot-land, and the lakes of Ireland, there are a few "pretty bits of scenery" not unworthy the eye of the modern knight and lady. SNOWDROP.- Yes, lotteries were very much invogue at the latter end of the last and the begin-ning of this century. The reigning London fashionamongst the quality in 1780, says a writer of thatperiod, was to go, after the opera, to the lotteryoffices, where their ladyships would bet with thekeepers. You chose any number you pleased; if itdidn't come up next day, you paid five guineas: if it did, you received forty, or in proportion to the age of the tirage (drawing). The Duchess of Devonshire, in one day, won nine hundred pounds.A General Smith, as the luckiest individual, was ofthe most select parties, and chose the numbers forthe fair dowagers. Sometimes we hear peoplespeaking of the far greater virtues which werepracticed in England when our grandfathers and grandmothers were living!ADELAIDE POE TREE.- You admire, beyond allother poets, Byron. We do not; and we think hisreputation will not stand the test of the criticismof this and future ages; but, as you say, one of theexcusable weaknesses of Byron was his pride in hisNorman ancestry - the first of his forefathers esta-blished in England, Ralph de Buron, having comeover with the Conqueror. This Ralph held several manors in Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire, and York-shire, and the lordship of Clayton as well. Thethird Lord Byron married one of a name strangelyconnected with the fortunes of the family - Elizabeth Chaworth, daughter of John, Viscount Chaworth, William, the fifth Lord, was surnamed the"Whiced," and lived to fall prostrate before thatshrine falsely called by moral cowards "Honour." Being at a convivial meeting of the Nottingham-shire Club, held in Pall Mall, no the 26th of Janu-ary, 1765, he had some words with his friend andneighbor, Mr. Chaworth of Annesley, as towhether Sir Charles Sedley, on his estates of Nuttall and Bulwell, or he (Lord Byron), on his estate of Newstead, had the greater quantity ofgame. Heated with wine, the disputants en-countered on the stair. What passed, or who wasthe challenger, is not known, but they requested a waiter to show them to an empty room, which he did, leaving a small lighted candle on the table. The bell was soon after rung, and, on the waiter, or tavern-keeper, and some of the dinner-friends, entering the room, they found Mr. Chaworth mor-tally wounded - his opponent's sword having passed into his body, and gone, as he expressed it, deepthrough his back. Lord Byron's left arm wasround Mr. Chaworth, and Mr. Chaworth's rightarm around Lord Byron's neck and on his shoulders. The folly of the moment had passed into the eternal crime. The shades were gathering round. To the one - Death; the other - Remorse. Mr. Chaworth, in his expiring agony, forgave his friend, who was tried by his Peers on the 13th of Februaryfollowing, and found guilty of manslaughter;whereupon he claimed the benefit of the statuteof Edward VI., which was allowed, and he was dis-charged on paying his fees. He retired to New-stead, and there lived a life of gloomy misan-thropy. /* July 1860 (Series 2, Vol. 1, No. 3, p. 97-144)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 144 - PDF page 161  */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONECHARLOTTE D.- We be-lieve that the college forladies which you refer tois of the highest character. Anacquaintance with all the sub-jects you mention is indispensable forevery well-educated woman. And thisacquaintance must not be a superficial one, or it will soon betray its thin andshadowy nature, when you come into thesociety of those better and more solidly informed. You may possibly make somesuch error as was made by the hero of anOxford story we remember to have heard. Anundergraduate, weak in his divinity, was asked"Which are the minor Prophets?" His reply wasrespectful to all the sacred writers and authors ofthe Bible, but it evidenced a respect which hadcertainly kept him from venturing very closely intothe comparative greatness and merit of the seersof Holy Writ - "Well, he did not like to draw dis-tinctions." AN APPEAL.- Can any of our readers aid the inquiring EVA SINCLAIR? She says she will feelobliged to the editor if he will inform her of thecomposition of the cosmetic used in the time of Charles the Second by the beauties of the Court,which really had the power of calling the crimsonstream of blood to the exterior fibres of the cheeks, and producing on the cheeks a beautiful rosycolour, like unto the bloom of nature itself. EVA wishes, also, to know if it was injurious to the skinor not, as she is very anxious to make a trial of it, for she does not like to be detected in rougeing. EVA has always heard that the Egyptian women usewater and friction to bring a colour on the cheeks.EVA would also like to know how that art is to belearnt, or if the editor can enlighten her on the subject.- WE think the use of water and friction - why should we not at once say, a good wash? - cannotbe equalled for MISS SINCLAIR'S purpose; but some of our readers will come to EVA'S rescue, possibly, with a more philosophic remedy. LADY C'S suggestions shall have our best atten-tion. We think two or three of them are practi-cable and good, and we are greatly obliged by herLady'ship's letter. A BACHELOR IN LOVE sends us a communica-tion, in which he declares that there are ladies inwhose "conversation, as in an academy of virtue,we see nothing but nobleness and learn nothingbut goodness." We agree with him. MRS. ROWE (Working, near the Cemetery).- Thequarrels of lovers, it has been believed, ever sincethe old Roman so described them, are but thebeginning of love - a love stronger and more de-lightful from the very fact of the quarrel. But wedon't think any author, either in times of yore orof the present day, whether of a practical turn of mind and given to the instruction of the people, or of a poetic and dramatic disposition, has ever told us anything half so pretty concerning those quar-rels which will sometimes break out between hus-bands and wives. These are not pretty quarrels, and we can easily see that they are not consideredso, even by the parties concerned; for, in nine cases out of ten, the two better halves are notanxious that it should go forth to the world that there has been any vital difference of opinion be-tween them. "Well, don't make a noise, the ser-vants will hear you." These quarrels, however, doget to be known, and here is a case in point. A Scotch minister, engaged in visiting his flock, knocked at a door, where his modest tap was notheard for the noise of a violent quarrel within.After waiting a little, he opened the door, walked in, and somewhat pompously inquired, "I shouldlike to know who is the head of this house?" "Weel, sir," said the husband, "if ye sit down awee, we'll may be able to tell ye, for we're just trying to settle that point." ALBUMS.- We have succeeded in unearthing one splendid specimen from the magnificent fossil re-mains of ancient albums - those wondrous ruins which prove the existence of the keen wit, trenchantsatire, and subtle imaginations of many "greatunknown." Who would not desire to have knownthe Mr. Clark who wrote the following lines, and afterwards - oh! what a loss for England, and whata gain for England's faithful colony! - went to Canada. Your kindest attention, if you please.-"To the Editor of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE, Sir, - The following was inserted in my album, written by Mr. F. Clark, who afterwardswent to Canada, North America. If you deemthem worthy of a place in your valuable reposi-tory, they are at your disposal. - Yours respectfully,E. H. May, 1860. LINES TO MISS E. H., OF BROMLEY.Let love and homage still be paidTo every rank and every grade;Let beauty have its proper sway,And find admirers every day;May swains and maidens early findHusbands and wives that's very kind;Soon to the church may they be led, And the married happy, the single wed;May pleasure and goodness ere abound,And all our efforts with success be crowned. Thee, dear maid, above all others, too, To honour, love, and friendship true, May Heaven's choicest gifts be sent - Health, happiness, plenty, and content. Thrice-happy youth and favoured swain, Who shall thy hand and heart attain, Thy softest lips with roseate dye,Thy lustrous and thy sparkling eye,Thy lovely cheeks that softly glows, Sweeter than the bashful rose;Wit so clear and sparkling bright,Learning and manners that delight;Choicest virtues and graces rare, Unparalleled amongst the fair. A brighter wreath thy brow shall twine,Than ever grac'd the noblest of thy line;May choicest gifts from Heaven descend,Is the heartfelt wish of a SINCERE FRIEND. A.D. 1845. A NEWLY MARRIED COUPLE must expect to havesome trouble with their servants. As we are notall constituted alike, nor have the same opportunities, it is impossible that intelligence can be equal. We knew a lady who, weary of town servants, importeda piece of plump and rosy innocence from thecountry, and who, on the first day of her appearance,hand occasion to address her thus -"Mary, bring me some water with the chill taken off." "Yes,ma'am, directly." "Mary," cried the lady, after the delay of half an hour, "what on earth keepsyou?" "Why, ma'am, I've been looking ever sincefor the chill, and I can't find it." So much forMary; but boys are not a bit better. We haveheard of a gentleman who told his boy to boil someeggs soft, and when questioned what detained him, he replied, "Rat the things! it aint o' no mannero' use! they won't bile soft. I've been trying 'em themore nor an hour, and the more I biles 'em the harder they get!" We have given these instances of intelligence with great pleasure, in the hope thatyou will derive some consolation from their perusal. MARY BRYCE.- Never get into a crowd gazing at shop-windows; but if you do, and are visited by the annoyance complained of, take the advice given by an old lady to ourselves. When the personbehind you treads agains your heels, lift them up a little, and let them fall on his toes.  /* August 1860 (Series 2, Vol. 1, No. 4, p. 145-192)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 192 - PDF page 213  */MRS. KNOWLE LEGGE.British instruction mightbe considerably better - much issupposed to be taught in the schools of which you speak, but,on examination, that much would be farbetter if it were less. Too much divinity and theology are attempted to be crammedinto the childrens' minds, which are not ready for it - for these subjects require theattention of a logical and cultivated mind. We have all read of the reports made byher Majesty's Inspectors of Schools. We re-member Mr. Brookfield, one of these Inspec-tors, telling us that he asked one of the boys whosaid "The Belief" perfectly, to write it down, for he believed he had learnt it parrot-wise, and knewnothing of its real meaning. The boy commenced,"I bleed in God the Father," &c. A gentleman, closely connected with the education of poor chil-dren, told us, some few weeks since, that, on a Sunday afternoon, he went into a church, not tenmiles from the metropolis, where the Sunday-schoolchildren were being examined by the curate. Several questions of a most easy kind were asked, and answered by rote - evidently without any senseof their meaning. But now came - Question: Whowas the King of the Jews? Answer: First boydidn't know, nor second, nor third, when a boy, with just the sound on his ears, lustily shouted, "Hail!" This brings us to a story told by a Scotchwriter about a lad who went to the parish ministerto be examined before his first Communion. The minister, not wishing to discourage the boy, leadoff with what he thought a safe question. "How many commandments are there?" After some little thought, the lad cautiously and suggestively answered, "Aiblins a hunner" (about a hundred). The minister, shocked at such intolerable ignorance, dismissed his promising pupil. On returning home, the lad met another boy bound to the manse onthe same errand. Notes were compared. "Weel, what will ye say now, if the minister speers (asks)how many commandments there are?" "Say! whyI shall say ten, to be sure." "Ten! try ye him wi' ten? I tried him wi' a hunner, and he was nasatisfied." ANSWER TO THE APPEAL OF MISS EVA SINCLAIR.- The marvellous cosmetic employed by the beauties of the Court of King Charles the Second was merely tincture of benzoin, precipitated by water, whichMiss EVA SINCLAIR can prepare for herself with the greatest facility. A small piece of gum benzoin must be boiled in spirits of wine until a rich tincturebe the result; and fifteen drops of this mixture in a glass of water form the wondrous bloom-producingliquid. We feel inclined to echo the editorial recom-mendation of "a good wash;" but perhaps thisremedy is too simple to be efficacious, for, after all, faith is the principal thing. "Better it is to try and failThan never try at all." ST. SWITHINHELEN.- We would rather not give our opinion on the subject of which you write; but physicians do say that red noses are among the injurious effectsof tight lacing. A word to the prudent is enough!JEMIMA has quarrelled with her former friend, and, finding that she is in the wrong, she does not know how to make it up again. We advise her tocall upon her friend, proffer her hand, and neveragain mention the subject upon which the differencearose. Subjects of quarrel should be like lines written in dust, to be covered by the next breeze that blows. Even where injustice may be done to you, it is better not to quarrel or keep up ani-mosity, which is only like preserving a fire to burn your own bosom. We are aware, however, that itis not every one who will bow to this dictum, to illustrate which we may tell JEMIMA an anecdotewhich took place among the hills of the ScottishNorth. Two Highland lairds - cousins by consan-guinity - had, upon some trifling affair, a differencewhich ended in a complete alienation of the friend-ship from each other. After several years hadelapsed, one of them fell ill, and, as he was notexpected to recover, he sent for his former friend to make up the quarrel before he took his final de-parture from all sublunary things. When his relation entered the chamber of the sick man, thelatter sat up in his bed, and, extending his hand to the other, said, "Hae, there's my hand in freend-ship if I dee; but if I dinna dee, mind, Jamie, I'm as much your foe as ever." Death, however, thesettler of all quarrels, stepped in on the followingday and carried off the sick Highlander. HOW TO GET RID OF FLIES. In summer, bright summer, the ladies all knowHow troublesome flies do become;They light on their faces and ticklet them so, And disturb their small ears with their hum; The cat they tormet, and the baby they plague, When laid down to sleep in its cradle; Young Miss they annoy, whilst "The Battle of Prague" She's playing as well as she's able;On the black nose of Bruno the Blenheim theylight,When he snaps like the cap of a gun - Tormenting us all, both by day and by night, Though to them it seems nothing but fun;The glass and the crystal, the pictures and frames,The china and commonest ware,All things in the kitchen, without and with names, They spot and their beauty impair.. Ye dames who are wedded, then, hear our receipt, Which in practice will rid ye of flies; Be ye young, be ye old, be ye fond or discreet, You'll prove this before your own eyes. When your spouse after dinner has fallen asleep, Wash his whiskers with treacle or honey, And his cheeks will soon show you a hecatomb heap Of the PESTS, without trouble or money. CAROLINE HUMOUR (Wife of Thos. Humour, of Funnyvale Hall, Leicestershire). YOUNG MAN.-  In affairs of love, a letter is, outof all question, the most eligible mode of commu-nication. It spares the blushes of the lady, andsaves the tyro of a lover a vast deal of mauvaisehonte. Besides, the ladies prefer that a proposalshould reach them in black and white, as they have then an opportunity of exhibiting the proof positiveof the power of their charms to all their female acquaintance. Earl ---- courted the beautiful heiress whom he afterwards married in the follow-ing manner:- "Do you like buttered toast?" "Yes." "Buttered on both sides?" "Yes." "Sodo I. Don't you think we had better be married?""Yes." Her fourth "Yes" was pronounced before the altar.MRS. MORFEY.- Doubtless it is difficult to keepyour eyes always open in the dog-days, whilst yourminister is preaching on the very vulgar, every-daysubjects of practical morality and home virtues, preferring, as you do, discussions on predestination and essays on free will. You have not heard, per-haps, of the parish of Lunan, where there existeda habit of sleeping in church, much to the disgustof the minister, who, on one unlucky Sunday after-noon, endeavored to stir up his hearers by an earnest objurgation, concluding with the pointed fact - "You see, even Jamie Fraser, the idiot (who was in the front gallery, wide awake), does notfall asleep, as many of you are doing." Jamie, not liking either the publicity or the designation, re-plied, "An I had na been an edeot, I would ha' beensleeping too." /* September 1860 (Series 2, Vol. 1, No. 5, p. 193-240)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 240 - PDF page 267 */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONEA LADY asks the originof "giving a pair of gloves?"The term "Glove-money," aswell as that of "Giving a pairof gloves," is found in old lawrecords, the origin of which is said tohave arisen from the following circum-stance:- When Mrs. Croaker had ob-tained a decree in Chancery against LordArundel, she availed herself of the first New Year's Day after her success to present to SirThomas More, then Lord Chancellor, a pairof gloves, containing £40 in angels, as a tokenof her gratitude. The gloves were accepted as anoffering of the heart, but the gold he peremptorilyrefused, politely remarking, when he returned it, "that it would be against good manners to refuse a gentlewoman's New Year's gift. I therefore acceptthe gloves, but their lining you will be pleased other-wise to bestow." Q. O.- We here subjoin two recipes for the re-moval of freckles, &c., which have been supplied tous by competent authorities. 1. Take one drachm ofmuriatic acid, half a pint of rain water, half a tea-spoonful of spirits of lavender. Mix and apply twoor three times a day to the freckles with a bit oflinen or camel-hair pencil. 2. The favourite cosmeticfor removing freckles in Paris is one ounce of alum, one ounce of lemon-juice, mixed with one pint of rose-water. 3. For whitening and softening thehands, nothing is better than fine oatmeal, eithermade into a thin gruel, or a little thrown into thewater when washing. The engaged ring is wornon the third finger of the right hand. AMELIA.- As Demosthenes said that action waseverything in oratory, we would say that practiceis everything in singing; but, as you, also, wish toknow the qualities requisite for good singing, we will give you our best advice. They are not many, though they are indispensible, and consist of com-pass of voice, truth of intonation, clearness com-bined with sweetness of tone, facility of execution, the capacity to swell and diminish, the hitting ofdistances with precision, and a free, open shake. To these Burney adds expression, "that indefinablequality which gives to the feeblest voice that power of touching the heart, which the best of voices, without it, will fail to accomplish." MARTHA BROWN.- Her Majesty and her Majesty's Ministers have, strangely enough, not yet summonedus to impart to our ears the fact of the engagementyou mention, as having reached you by report, be-tween the Prince of Wales and the German Princess. He is now in Canada, and will visit the United States. He may, perhaps, be visited by "love's young dream" in the Far West, and endeavour tomove Parliament to let him make of a fair Canadianor an American President's daughter, the futureQueen of England. GWALIA asks- 1. What is the meaning of "Et tu,Brute?" Well, it looks very much as if it might be addressed to an unreasonable husband, if such a specimen of the human race could possibly be found- "What a brute you are!" This is not, however, the translation which is most in favour with the learned; and it is usually understood as being theexpression made use of by the great Julius Caesarwhen, falling under the blows of assassins in the Roman capitol, he recognized amongst those whowere seeking his death his much-loved friend Brutus. "And thou, O Brutus!" is the literal rendering of the passage. 2. What is Platonic love? Thisdemands several pages to properly describe. Itshall be our pleasant duty to enter deeply into itsmetaphysics, when Phoebus shines less warmly. 3. The Sultan Solyman did make a pyramid of the bones of the Crusaders. You can read all about it in the last volume of the "Boy's Own Magazine." MISS V. RAY.- They thought very strongly on this point, in times gone by, when earnestness was in fashion, and a good tale is told by Dean Ramsay which strikingly illustrates the fervour of Jacobite feeling in auld lang syne, as well as the dry, matter-of-fact character of our Northern brethren:- Mr. Stirling, of Keir, a strong Stuartite, attended a secret meetingat the Brig of Turk, in 1708. The government wasvery anxious to discover the leaders. Keir wassuspected, but the miller of Keir swore positively and distinctly that the laird was not there. As it was generally known that Keir was present, the witness was, of course, asked how he could swear to so downright a falsehood. The miller, quite un-daunted, and with a feeling of confidence in the righteousness of his cause, approaching the sublime, replied, "I would rather trust my soul to God's mercy than trust Keir's head to their hands." We have another of a minister in the North, who, returning thanks in his prayers one Sabbath for anexcellent harvest, began as usual, "O Lord, we thank thee," &c., and went on to mention itsabundance and its safe ingathering; but, feelinganxious to be quite candid and scrupulously truth-ful, he added, "All except a few fields, betweenthis and Stonehaven, not worth mentioning."Again, a Scotch preacher, being sent to a countryparish, was accommodated in the manse, but in a very small closet. On inquiring "Is this the bed-room?" he was answered, "Deed ay, sir, this is theprophet's chammer." "It maun be for the minorprophet's, then." A seceding minister of Fife, ex-pounding the 116th Psalm, came to the verse, "Isaid in my haste all men are liars;" and he added, not quite inaudibly, "Indeed, David, an' ye hadbeen i' this parish, ye might have said it at yourleesure." ADA CHURCHWARD.- You cannot possibly expectthat a young man in a parish like yours, where, asyou say, there are not more than twenty or thirtypeople who go regularly to hear their pastor - sometimes not more than twelve - it would be un-reasonable to hope that he would not, in the courseof a year, deliver nearly the same sermon three orfour times. Bear with him, pray, and let us hopehe doesn't meet with a rebuff anything like thatdescribed in the following:- A young minister, dining after service with a farmer, found his appe-tite so keen, that he thought it necessary to apolo-gize to his host for having eaten so very substantial a dinner. "You see, I am always very hungryafter the preaching." The old gentleman, notthinking very highly of his guest's pulpit perform-ances, relied, after having heard this apology ontwo or three occasions, "Deed, sir, I'm no surprised at it, considering the trash that comes off your stomach in the morning."  MRS. ROWLEY.- The device of an anchor in theparish of St. Clement Danes, London, owes itsorigin to the following legend in the life of thatsaint. He having been cast into the sea with ananchor about his neck - a common mode of execution then among the Romans - on the first anniversary of his death, the sea withdrew from the place wherehe suffered, though three miles from the shore, anddiscovered to the admiring multitude a superbtemple of the finest marble, in which was a monu-ment containing the saint's remains. Nor was this the only respect shown him by the ocean; for a considerable period of time, every following year, the element receded on the same day, continuing thus, for seven days in succession, to admit theChristians to perform their devotions in thismiraculous submarine temple. To this legend isascribed the badge, which is to be seen on the parochial church of St. Clement's, in several partsof that edifice; and an anchor is placed on the boundary marks of the parish, on the hands of theclock, &c./* October 1860 (Series 2, Vol. 1, No. 6, p. 241-288)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 288 - PDF page  */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONEVENTRILLO. Thereis no "royal road" tomatrimony; you leave us indoubt, moreover, as to whetheryou have even a single memberof the opposite sex among your ac-quaintances. As a matter of course, theelements of a husband are to be foundin men only; you will, consequently,perceive the necessity for knowing one, atleast, of that sex from which husbands areselected.MARY W. BRADSHAW.- The pattern of a slipper with flowers shall be given, as you desire, in a month or so; but we have many, very manywishes to gratify. QUERY.- Mr. Alexander Ross, to whom we have applied, declares that the depilatory which hemanufactures is perfectly harmless.C. MICKLEBURGH.- The best lithographic chalkis manufactured by Lemercier, of Paris, sold byMessrs. Barbes, Quadrant, Regent-street. It canbe kept crisp and hard by putting it in tin boxesand using it in porte-crayons. J. G.'s humorous contribution is declined withthanks. We regret not having space for its inser-tion.W. J. P. (Malvern).- We regret that this con-tribution is too lengthy for our limited space. E. F. MORRIS.- Will insert if possible. E. H. FLEMING.- Declined with thanks. We are sorry we cannot find space for A. H.'s contribution.M. WHITE.- Every purchaser of the twelvenumbers of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGA-ZINE has a chance of sharing in the Distribution ofPrizes given by the Art-Union of London. TheseCheques have to be sent, in April next, to thePublisher, with the name and address of the Sub-scriber written on them. This proves that they have purchased the twelve numbers. EMMELINE.- Rowland's Odonto is, we believe, the best dentifrice. MEDICUS.- It is a very safe and wholesome pre-paration, we understand.MISS E. BRADLEY.- "The Bird Tribe," respectfully declined. MARIA B. - Bal-mor'-al.KATHERINE MAY DAY.- We regret the verses aretoo long for our limited space. HANNAH P--- (Birmingham).- We shall en-deavor, probably, in our next volume, to meetyour wishes. The subjects are in preparation. A BEATING HEART.- Request the "young man" to plead his cause and your own before yourparents. Hope and wait. BESSIE WILLIS.- Inclose the MS. to any musicpublisher; if suitable for publication, he would, doubtless, comply with your request. A. T.- We earnestly hope that matters are notso bad as you describe, but that, in a moment ofwounded feeling, you have unconsciously overdrawnthe picture of your trials. Surely, if you were to state your case to your parents as clearly as youhave to us, some mode of obviating the annoyancesto which you are subjected would be devised. YEARN.- To your first query, yes. With respect to your second, we are not acquainted with any "safe, simple, and efficacious recipe" for increasingthe growth of eyelashes. The art of beauty is stillin a very imperfect condition. In a generation or two some great discoverer may arise and turn his attention to the subject. But, on the other hand, it might possibly happen that eyelashes might thenbe deemed decidedly unfashionable; in which casethe great discoverer would, of course, endeavor tofind out the best mode of eradicating them. Soyou perceive there is no certain present or prospec-tive help for us; hence we had better leave Natureand her eyelashes alone in this respect. ESPERANCE.- We have to express regret that our want of space will not permit our inserting the names of contributors who kindly supply us with extracts for the "Poetry of the Months." TIT's contribution is respectfully declined. HONESTICIES' verses are pretty, but want of spaceprevents our inserting them. WALTER WEVER.- Respectfully declined. W. H. C. N.- Your lines are so good that weregret we cannot find space for their insertion. MEG MERRILIES.- The verses are very pretty, but we are compelled to decline them. VIOLET.- We are somewhat at a loss what advice to give as you have not informed us what are youraccomplishments. If you can draw and colour well, you might try water-colour or oil-painting. A SECOND FLORA MACDONALD, Edinburgh.-Humour, perhaps, and not wit, is the proper designation for the kind of thing produced in theNorth; and although the distinction between witand humour is undoubtedly real, yet there is some difficulty in defining it. Sidney Smith declaredthat one point of the distinction in which Scotch-men fail is their insensibility to the wit of others, although they are capable themselves of sayingshrewd, sarcastic, and "pawky" things. "It re-quires a surgical operation to get a joke well into a Scotch understanding," said the Canon of St. Paul's; but then he was hardly a fair witness, for there isno doubt his spirit was provoked by the hard, prac-tical estimate which the canny men of the North formed of his pecular irony. RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- D. F., Gracechurch-street; S. E. R., Maria Shand, "Twirling the Hat," T. U., "Lines from an old Album," M. A. C., H. B. C., J. C. T., Adeline Stewart, Topsy, Frances B., Kathleen, Jane Park, Lottie, J. I. S., Miss Webb, An Old Man's Story, E. L. Spencer, Mary Hudson, "A Governess Pupil," "Esperance," Olivia G---, L. F., Mr. G. Haly, "A Fragment," Lily, "The Echoing Horn," May Lilian, E. O., M. A. H., E. Turrell, C. D. F. G., Carlile, "Legend of a CountryVillage." *** The Editor cannot answer queries concerningthe receipt of cheques. A space equal to the whole ofthe Magazine would be necessary, if we undertook to acknowledge the safe arrival of some 40,000 dif-ferently-numbered cheques. *** We have received many angry letters from oursubscribers, complaining of the non-receipt of their numbers of this Magazine. In a few instances we have been unable to supply the demand sufficiently quickly, as the elaborate nature of the Fashion-plateand Berlin Wool-work Pattern demands great carein their manufacture; but frequently our fair cor-respondents are themselves to blame, for not seldomwe receive orders without sufficient address, and sometimes without any address at all; and there have been one or two cases in which stamps have been received without any name or address whatever. We would ask, therefore, our subscribers to be kind enoughto write their names and addresses perfectly clearlyand legibly, and at full length; for although, in theletter itself, we are enabled by the context easily to un-derstand what is required to be forwarded, yet in the matter of proper names it is not so easy for our clerks to decipher these. Much disappointment, inconve-nience, loss of time, and money would be saved both toour subscribers and the publisher if, in the instances we refer to, greater care were exercised. *** It is impossible for the Editor to undertake to return rejected contributions. /* The Englishwoman’s Domestic MagazineSecond Series, Volume 1 Correspondence Sections as Plain Text Link: Series 2 Volumes 1-3 in one Google Books PDF here https://www.google.com/books/edition/The_Englishwoman_s_domestic_magazine_Imp/mGUEAAAAQAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0Volume note: Volumes change in this new series, to 6 months (and 6 numbers) rather than 12 per volume. So the year is now two volumes. Each number is now 48 rather than 32 pages long, and the size of the paper is larger.Prepared by Julie M. Sorge WayPreparation notes: Line breaks preserved from the originalNovember 1860 (Series 2, Vol. 2, No. 7, p. 1-48)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 48 - PDF page 363 */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONEIDA writes: "Canyou tell me what to do toget rid of those little black spotswhich, by the nose's side, by hun-dreds come?" What a thing it is to be an Editor! We wonder not thatwe are envied, even to the verge of ha-tred: for are we not the trusted prieststo whom confessions are made of themost trifling physical defects, as well as of the most dazzling mental qualifications? Fair Ida (may it not be, under the circum-stances, dark eyed her, and nosed her?), remember, in thine affliction, that there be spots, large and black, on the gorgeous sun, albeit he rulesby day; let it be balm unto thy soul, also, that thesilver moon - the moon whose smile "Plays o'er a stream in dimpling bliss"-has also spots, which the learned astronomersand heaven's geographers declare to be mountainsand valleys of granite. And they mountains and valleys! Dost thou know what they are? We will tell thee. They are, according to naturalists - the seekers and discoverers of earth's wonders - insects, which pass through their four inevitable changes as regularly and certainly as the huge stag-beetle.And, according to microscopists, here they are intheir various forms and shapes, with their long/* Large engraving showing 4 small bacteria diagrams */Latin names, and their not very elegant appear-ance. Have we not answered thee, Ida? Only toofully, perhaps, thou wilt say. Well, thou art, maybe, like unto the maiden in the song, whom itsmoral advises, "Don't ask for too much at the wishing gate." From some very interesting paperson "The Marvels of the Microscope," printed inthe "BOY'S OWN MAGAZINE," we extract the follow-ing:- "In last month's paper we spoke about the skin of the human body. We now give an engraving of Entozoon folliculorum, a remarkable parasirefound beneath the skin of man, and especially of men living in large towns. They are to be seen wherever fat glands are abundant, such as the fore-head, the sides of the nose, and the angles between the nose and the lips; not quite so large, to be sure, as our artist has drawn them, nor is the whole body exposed at one time, as in the drawing; but if that part of the face where a little black spot appears, be squeezed rather hard, the oily matter there ac-cumulated will be forced out in a globular form, and if this is laid on a glass slide, and a small quantity of oil added to it, to cause the separation of the harder portions, the little animal in all pro-bability will float out. After the addition of more oil, it can then be taken away from the oily matterby means of a fine-pointed sable pencil-brush, and transferred to a clean slide When dry it should be immersed in Canada balsam, and covered over withthin glass, when it will be ready for inspection." BEATRIX SYMMONDS.- Your case is, unfortunately, a common one. We assure you that if we printed the "productions of all the young authoresses" who address themselves to us, we should have to issuethe ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE daily instead of monthly. FLORENCE, and others who write about the cheques which seem to be missing in some numbersof the Magazine, can send a small portion of the wrapper of these numbers in lieu of the cheque. BLANCHE HOWARD.- The best kid gloves arethose of Paris, and are made - start not, fairreaders! - of rat-skin. A CHEQUE.- If you will forward your address, alist of the numbers of the cheques held by the 2,000 prizeholders will be sent you. SNOWDROP.- See the "Court Directory for 1860." T. HAWKINS.- The regular use of the wine would not be injurious. M. E. L.- You must write your name and address on the May cheque, and forward to the publisheras directed. CHAS. SHAW.- We shall be very happy to giveany articles sent to us our best attention. SYDNEY HASTINGS.- We regret that the verses are too long for our limited space. RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- "Donna Catalina," A. A. J., H. Windybank, J. Browne, Lidas, TomBoy, C. S. (Lewisham), H. Osborne, N. Y. H., JohnBull, Alice Warren, "Lines to Rosalie," E. F. Wilson, S. H. J., "Clara." E. B. will find a recipe for collared eel in "Mrs. Beeton's Book of Household Management," No. 254 Recipe, Part III., price 3d. For the sponge-cake recipe, E. B. will have to wait till the publica-tion of Part 14, in December next. E. ASHFORTH.- We shall shortly have the pleasureof announcing some original designs in leather workas well as many other interesting and useful artsfor ladies. In Preparation, BEETON'S CHRISTMAS ANNUALPrice One Shilling. This will consist of 100 large pages, beautifully printed and illustrated, accompanied by a mosthandsome illuminated Almanack, printed on card-paper, in Gold and Colours. The contents of theAnnual will be Tales, Essays, Fables, Biography, History, Ballads, Songs, Sketches, Adventures, Romances, Dreams, Fancies, Philosophy, Natural History, &c; a Christmas Burlesque, ActingCharades, a host of Christmas Games, Sports, Pastimes, Riddles, Conundrums, and the like; and a large separate sheet of Puzzles, besides the more usual accompaniments of a House-hold Almanack. Taking it for all in all, this "Christmas Annual" will prove a more interest-ing assemblage of letterpress and engravings, espe-cially adapted for Christmas, than has yet been placed before the British public. The charming Eidographic Illuminated Almanack will be a mar-vellous specimen of the art of Colour-printing. Ready early in November. S. O. Beeton, 248, Strand, London, W.C. /* December 1860 (Series 2, Vol. 2, No. 8, p. 49-96)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 96 - PDF page 411 */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONEHOPE EVERMORE thinksthat a law could and should be passed to compel married mento wear the plain gold ring, "Thesame as we do." Her reasonsare good as far as they go; but we thinkthey hardly go far enough - for, unlessHOPE EVERMORE can see in the circletof gold a charm to make men moreconstant and more virtuous than she ima-gines (or knows) them to be, no reform wouldcome of it. ROSA LINDA.- "There is a skeleton in every house," it is said; and we can only suggest thatyou may get rid of a few bones of yours by regularexercise, gentle aperients, and the use of the bath. F. W.- It being the almost universal practice forthe bride's family to supply the linen for the "young couple;" it being supposed that when the linen isbought, the happy day is not far off; it being also understood that the linen will belong to both man and wife, the best way is to mark it thus - the first letter to be the initial of the gentleman's Christianname, the second the initial of the lady's Christian name, and the third the name which they will bearin common. Thus if Adam White is about to wed Eve Green, the various articles should be markedA. E. W. Is F. W. governed, however, in the least, by superstition? There is a saying that it is un-lucky to mark the linen before the knot is tied. C. C. LEWIS.- Mr. J. J. Bradford, or Mr. Murray,of Cork, will supply you with our Magazine. Withrespect to your question concerning the American cooking stoves, we understand that they are all that can be desired and, with care, are not open to theobjections you mention.MAGGIE P. and some other ladies are not con-tented with our answer to EVA SINCLAIR. The inquiries turn now upon the manner of applyingthe cosmetic, whether as a wash or to be drunk? MAGGIE seems in a "dreadful way;" she has such a shocking complexion. Eheu! what a world it is for quacks! ST. SWITHIN, who before, came to ourrescue, will not be, possibly, wanting again in entering the lists of our "Conversazione," andfinishing off our persevering correspondents. MARY AND ISABEL.- Our space has been so  occu-pied, that we have had no room for the names ofthose who have forwarded us their quotations from the poets; shortly, however, we hope to remedythe omission. E. P. BYRNE should not write us an angry letterbecause we had not, last month, space sufficient totell her that we would soon give a pattern for a "night-dress." Have patience; the building of Rome was not done in a day. MARIANNA TINTINA is very solicitous to know"what would render the complexion a dead white, for she has a friend who troubled with a florid, greasy-looking skin." We never could understand what it is that makes so many friends write to uson account of their friends. The virtue of un-selfishness is certainly more shown in letters "tothe editor" than under any other circumstances weever came in contact with; and, as we go throughour correspondence, we cannot help thinking what kind creatures there are in the world. It does not occur to us for a single moment, of course, when our correspondents say that they wish allthis information on behalf of their friends, that theythemselves are in the least interested: that would be unkind. However, returning to MARIANNA - she says, "now, although rosy cheeks are very charming, it is decidedly not pretty to see the fore-head, nose, &c., partaking of the same brilliant hue." MARIANNA then dimly hints that, "perhaps,some people may put it down to intemperance," but my friend seldom drinks anything stronger than water." Will any charitable person assist MARIANNA'S friend as to obtaining the desired "dead white." For ourselves, thinking more of a live dogthan a deceased lion, we should prefer the com-plexion a "living black." GEORGIANA BENSON, and several other of our friends who have not yet received "Beeton's Christmas Annual." - In consequence of the exceed-ingly elaborate nature of the Eidographic Almanack, printed in gold and colours, the publication of theChristmas Annual has been delayed beyond the time at which it was originally intended to be issued. We here append a short description of its principal features, and we are certain all who buy it will be most willing to declare that they neverexpended a shilling with more pleasure in their lives: - 1. A charming variety of entertaining Christmas Literature. 2. ROBIN HOOD: a Christmas Burlesque, and a host of Charades, Conundrums, Enigmas, and the like. 3. A magnificent Illumi-nated Eidographic Almanack for 1861, printed in gold and many colours. 4. The useful information necessary for a Household Almanack. 5. A largeseparate Sheet of Chinese and Japanese Puzzles, printed in red ink. In all, "Beeton's Christmas Annual" contains 120 pages of good paper, beauti-fully printed, and illustrated by upwards of 150 splendid Engravings, all from original designs by distinguished artists. NOTICE. THE NEW YEAR'S NUMBER of the "English-woman's Domestic Magazine." - We beg to inti-mate to our subscribers that on January 1st, 1861, will be published a double number of the English-woman's Domestic Magazine," price 1s. This, beyond the usual amount of letterpress, and its attractive fashion and coloured plates and embroi-dery sheet, will contain several features of so novel and useful a character that they will be received, we feel assured, with the greatest satisfaction by all our subscribers. Thus, the magazine will com-prise-1. An additional 48 pages of a variety of litera-ture, from the pens of some of the most eminentwriters of the day, magnificently illustrated by dis-tinguished artists. There will also be an extra tinted sheet, containing 2. A complete alphabet of capital letters, of newand beautiful design, for embroidering handker-chief corners, &c. 3. A complete alphabet of small letters for the same purpose. And, in addition to all this, therewill be included in the magazine for January - 4. A VERY PRETTY COLLAR, called the Garibaldi Collar, traced on fine muslin, ready for working, of an entirely new shape, and of a design suitable for the fashionable embroidery on muslin and net. 5. Also a pair of sleeves to match the collar, traced likewise on fine muslin, and perfectly readyfor working. This double number of the "Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine" will, then, besides comprising a great quantity of additional literature, embroiderypatterns, &c., contain a set of the newest collar and sleeves, which may be at once worked and worn by our subscribers, and will be found fully worth the whole price given for the double number. TO OUR SUBSCRIBERS. Our subscribers are respectfully invited to givetheir orders at once to their Booksellers for the regular supply of the Numbers of this Magazine, so as to be certain to receive them as soon as pub-lished, and with the Fashion Plates and Berlin Wool Work Patterns complete, the Publisher begging to notify that he will not undertake that the Fashion Plates will be issued with the Magazines beyond the month in which they are originally published. London, 248, Strand, W. C. /* January 1861 (Series 2, Vol. 2, No. 9, p. 97-192) (Double the usual number of pages)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 192 - PDF page 507 */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONEAN ATTEMPT TO SATISFYMAGGIE P. - ST. SWITHIN is a man of peace, who possesses as heart overflowing with philan-thropy, and he is deeply grieved that his reply to EVA SINCLAIR should have been so obscurely worded as to leave any doubt in the mind of MAGGIEP. as to the manner in which the pre-paration of gum-benzoin is to be applied. At the invitation of the EDITOR, the pacificST. SWITHIN will enter the lists, and, un-skilful though he be, will do his utmost to"finish off" the persevering "Englishwomen" whosecomplexions are so far from being what they should. If MAGGIE P. have any great desire to imbibe the cosmetic, ST. SWITHIN does not see any reason for supposing that it will have an injurious effect. Itis intended, however, "for outward application only;" but MAGGIE may test its internal efficacy, and instruct humanity by publishing the result. MARIANNA TINTINA, or rather, M. T.'s friend, is advised to show her wisdom by consulting Erasmus Wilson, instead of permitting the affection of hercuticle to become a subject of speculation to the readers of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGA-ZINE. The only thing in nature which can quack with safety is - a duck. One visit to a properly qualified medical practitioner will do more for the afflicted one than all the boluses, lotions, and washes, which chemists and perfumers prepare and advertise. Verbum sap. A SUBSCRIBER will find a slipper, to be workedin Berlin wool, in the November number of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE. MARIAN B.- Yes, we are happy to be able to saythat "Beeton's Christmas Annual" has been, and still is, a very great success. The printing of the beautiful almanacks, however, is a very slow pro-cess, and when the first edition was exhausted, it was impossible to produce fresh copies under a month's delay. J. A. M.- The price of Mr. Rimmel's perfumed almanack is 6d. You will get it free by post, we have no doubt, if you will send six postage-stamps to Mr. E. Rimmel, Strand, London. Thewreath for the music-stool shall not be forgotten. CONSTANCE MADELINE may rest assured that herletters to us are never tampered with. We have had no opportunity, ere this, of answering her questions. It is not difficult to tell what "will render the complexion a dead white." Anything that would take away life itself would effect thisobject. But as life, if not ruddy health, is evidently precious to our - we suppose we cannot say fair - correspondent, she may resort to any of the fol-lowing expedients for destroying the "brilliant colour" in a maiden's cheeks, and here is a choice of them:- Eat, fasting, every other day, for about three months, a few sticks of slate-pencil, or the stems of some new tobacco-pipes; but should this be too arduous a task, then, instead, eat two orthree tablespoons of flour, three or four timesa day, for five or six weeks, and the countenance will gradually assume the aspect of - a person just recovering from jaundice. - We will send C. M. a list of prizes on receipt of a stamped and addressed envelope. E. F. - Dr. Graham's "Domestic Medicine" is considered a reliable work; but it is treading on dangerous ground to attempt the study of the healing science, unless you have more time than most ladies have, to devote to it. "A little know-ledge is a dangerous thing," here especially. In reply to another MADELINE, we have to say that the acidity of the stomach may be temporarily removed by taking an effervescing draught in whichcarbonate of soda greatly preponderates; but this must not be indulged in too frequently. The con-tinuous appearance of pimples on the face indicates a derangement of the physical system which someexperienced and respectable doctor had better be employed to act right. MARY H.- We are happy to tell you that it is now illegal for a husband to strike or beat his wife. His right of "moderate correction" was first ques-tioned in the time of Charles the Second, and isnow indefensible. A wife has right to the custody of her child up to seven years of age. The per-sonal property of a wife passes to her husband absolutely on her marriage, but her real (i. e., free-hold) property can only be alienated by him during her life with her consent. If, as should be, it has been given to trustees for her sole use, he has no power over it. A wife may demand maintenance from her husband, but cannot pledge his credit even for necessaries, if she voluntarily quit his pro-tection. LILLIE M. DONALD asks if "sea-bathing doesany harm to the hair, as a great many people tell me the salt water heats it off?" We are such strongadvocates of the use of water, salt, rain, or fresh, that we should not be afraid if more than a great many people told us it was likely to heat our hair off. ALICE A. WARREN.- Pray let your friends sendtheir own MSS. We assure you we receive quite enough without the interposition, kindly though it be meant, of our numerous friends' friends. Have pity on the postman, if not on your humbleservant, the Editor. LAURA.- If you will write to Messrs. Vincent and Conrad, Princes-street, Fitzroy-square, they will give you every information relative to the per-forated papers. In transferring patterns to the muslin, perforate the design on paper with a fine needle; then lay the paper on the muslin, which should first be damped, and sprinkle over the perforationsa blue powder. A hot iron being then passedover the whole before the paper is removed, will set the pattern. A SUBSCRIBER writes - "Dear Sirs, - Could youtell me of any means to overcome bashfulness?P.S. - Should be much obliged." S. A. STEADMAN.- Your MS. has been read, and will probably be inserted. LEONORA H. G. ARMSTRONG WILLIAMS wishes us to aid her father in restoring his church, which hasbeen shut up for some years. She says, "if all the subscribers to the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE gave 6d. each, the £200 necessary would soon be raised." What do our subscribers thinkof it? It is a question for them rather than for us. RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- A. D. P.; M. G. L.; Rosa Moss; H. M., Bath; Viscount de Mont-gomery; H. Brookes; W. R. Weston; Ellen V.; Annas Blane; Erigens; A. B. Harris; R. W. O'Grady; Bullfinch; R. N., Bright; H.: PalazzoDorin Panfill; S. H.; N. N.; Maxwell Flowden; Mrs. G. H., Bessborough House; NOTICE TO THOSE WHO SEND MSS., POEMS, &c.- The Editor regrets that it is quite impossible to acknowledge, in the limited space at his disposal, all the contributions he receives. Nor is he able to return unaccepted MSS.; consequently, copies shouldbe retained by the writers. TO OUR SUBSCRIBERS. Our subscribers are respectfully invited to givetheir orders at once to their Booksellers for the regular supply of the Numbers of this Magazine, so as to be certain to receive them as soon as pub-lished, and with the Fashion Plates and Berlin Wool Work Patterns complete, the Publisher begging to notify that he will not undertake that the Fashion Plates will be issued with the Magazines beyond the month in which they are originally published. London, 248, Strand, W. C. /* February 1861 (Series 2, Vol. 2, No. 10, p. 193-240)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 240 - PDF page 561 */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONE ANN MAY tells us a ram-bling story about "havinglived with a family fifteen months, and about the mistress havingfinished her education in France, and since married a tradesman. Whenasked by her better half how to spell or pronounce many English words, she is unable to do so, and says, being away from England so long, is unable to tell him." ANN MAY wants to know "if that is the way education is attended to in France; if so, I have been under a great mistake" "Also, if it is etiquette in France for ladies, during meals, to continually keep putting their hands in their head, or rubbing their hair back with their hands, as one is apt to think that a person knowing so little as they pretend of English customs, that foreigners have the most disagreeable ways. Noticed and remarked by all at a table during her absence, as the mistress of the house, I always thought until now was expected to behave as such, and set an example to young people." - What is the question we are here expected to answer, we confess we don't know. With respect to the manners and customs of our Continental neighbours, some of their ways arenot as ours; but in good society, the same polite and easy manners are seen as in England. We have never heard, we may add, that there is anything remarkably haut ton in playing with the hair during dinner; but it is as well to be liberal-minded, and think the habit is admired by some. MODEST VIOLET is anxious that we "should send her word how to hate a person;" and goes on to tellus that, in her father's house, there resides a young man, who is her father's pupil; and she says, "heloves me, and I love him, but he does not intendto marry me, because I am only one year younger than himself." This she naturally thinks "is veryfoolish." But there are more Richmonds in the field. Immediately following the first avowal, is her declaration- "I love a cousin who is at Egypt, but he is eighteen years older than myself, but I love him better than any one in the world." After all this, we don't think we are called upon togive our aid. MODEST VIOLET, with her two strings, or rather, her two beaux, will get through the winter, we fancy, without our specific for causing hate togrow within her bosom. KATE, Hamburgh.- We confess to have remarkedit. The writers of pious tales and novels, having for their readers a strong religious party, docertainly boldly venture into phases of thought and action which those only who write for the general body of the public are compelled, and properly, we think, to eschew. JANET P - Historians have compiled, novelistshave romanced, essayists have criticised, and , as yet, all search in vain for the real character of Mary, Queen of Scots. Some will have it that never was woman so wronged as she, and delight in painting Elizabeth in the darkest colours, so as to throw up the purity of the beautiful Mary; others accuse her in downright terms, of sinning against many of God's commandments, declaring her guiltyof the murder of her husband, Darnley. We agree, however, with a late reviewer on this subject, in thinking that the latter crime was never brought home to Mary. Not that she might not have been capable of such a crime, - for had she not as in-structors in queencraft those monsters the Guises, to whom stabbing and poisoning were familiar? - but that, at that moment, it was good for her thatDarnley should live, whilst for some of Mary's enemies it was well that he should die. Statesmen in those times were not over-squeamish about a lifeor two, and Mary's husband was in possession of some awkward secrets concerning some of the Scots nobles. It is true that Mary's conduct after the Kirk of Field tragedy may be taken almost to prove her an accessory after the fact, and thus she must share in a portion of the guilt of the real perpetrators. DARN NO MORE will obtain the Patent Stockings at most respectable hosiers'. A BACHELOR asks a question which must, we fear, remain one: which is the best - a Flirt or a Prude? M. A. D.- Moulds and materials for making waxflowers may be obtained of Mr. Mintorn, 33, Soho-square, London. D. N.- We believe that a piece of silk tied tightly round the wart is often efficacious in removing it. ANNOTT LISLE'S request will receive attention. M. S.- The size of our Buff pattern sheet is not large enough to give the patterns of large jackets. CAMILLA EVELYN, RUTH, AND OTHERS.- The cover, with the title page, preface, index, and large envelope for holding the patterns for Vol. 1 of the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, new series, is now ready, and will be sent to any part of the kingdomfor 12 postage stamps. R. H. will probably see in our next number a night-dress bag. ALFREDA.- Let well enough alone; there are as many admirers of what you complain of, as of the oppositeform. DESESPOIR.- The first six numbers should bebound - twelve make too thick a volume (see answer to CAMILLA EVELYN). M. A. M. GIAOUR.- If you are very intimate with the bride, you may, at the same time that you re-turn your cards, write a congratulatory note; other-wise, merely send your cards. M. D. wishes to inform IDA that "a little rubbingwith bran and cold water each morning will curethe dark specks in her face." M. D. adds- "In re-turn for this recipe, I expect her to give 6d. to some poor person." LOTTIE- "Havet's Complete French Class Book," 7s., is a good book. We will get it for you if youwish. R. DION.- We fear the Illuminated Almanacks in Beeton's Annual will be damaged by being sent by post. The booksellers will have no objection to procure them for you through their London Agent. QUIZ.- Apply to Messrs. Block and Sons, or Faudel and Phillips, Newgate-street, London. DECLINED WITH THANKS.- Pollux; E. J.; Bessie. NOTICE TO THOSE WHO SEND MSS., POEMS, &c.- The Editor regrets that it is quite impossible to acknowledge, in the limited space at his disposal, all the contributions he receives. Nor is he able to return unaccepted MSS.; consequently, copies shouldbe retained by the writers. NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.Covers for Vol. 1 of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE (New Series), with the title-page, preface, index, envelope for holding the pattern sheets, Berlin patterns, &c., and directions for binding, are now ready, price is 1s. each. Sent free by post to anyaddress on receipt of 12 postage stamps. TO OUR SUBSCRIBERS. Our subscribers are respectfully invited to givetheir orders at once to their Booksellers for the regular supply of the Numbers of this Magazine, so as to be certain to receive them as soon as pub-lished, and with the Fashion Plates and Berlin Wool Work Patterns complete, the Publisher begging to notify that he will not undertake that the Fashion Plates will be issued with the Magazines beyond the month in which they are originally published. London, 248, Strand, W. C. /* March 1861 (Series 2, Vol. 2, No. 11, p. 241-288)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 288 - PDF page 613 */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONEADELAIDE. We are grateful for your consi-deration, and we thankyou for your letter, for it cameamidst a heap of most congratu-latory notes, and just served to keep the balance of our mind, or ourvanity might have been too much fed, and so have led to most disastrous con-sequences. Just a little lemon-juice doeswonders for a sweet sauce. Wait, and seethe effect of your application. In a shorttime the spell will work. TOM PINCH'S SISTER has only to beginworking the collar and cuffs, and she will find themvery easy to do. A. (Devizes.)- You are not bound to continue to reside in a house which your landlord allows to fallinto an untenantable state. Give him notice to repair it forthwith; and if he neglect to do so, quitand deliver him up the key. He will only be able to recover up to the quarter in which you leave- under such circumstances. ROSEBUD wishes her hair to be "wavy," but com-plains that, having tried wetting and plaiting it, it becomes dry and harsh. Ah! Rosebud will learn that throughout her whole life she must not expectboth "to have the cake and eat it." We might suggest "crimping irons;" but our correspondent would find the same result from their use. INQUIRER.- A letter written in the third personshould commence with Mr., Mrs., or Miss - or, if written by a person of rank, should state the rank. Thus, Mr. Brown presents his compliments - Mrs. Brown presents her compliments - Miss Brown pre-sents her compliments. TIMBRE-POSTE.- Old postage stamps are, likelyenough, used in the manufacture of papier-mache, in common with any other waste paper. But we would acquaint our correspondent with a not un-important fact - that old postage stamps are bought up for the purpose of being subjected to processes which remove the impression of the erasing stampfrom some, whilst others are cut into fragments, which are neatly fitted together again, so as to passcurrent as new stamps. Put your old stamps in the fire, and lend no hand to what may be an infamous fraud.W. E. S. may forward the top part of the wrapper of the number of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE in which there is no cheque, and it will be received as a substitute for the cheque. If EMMA (Isle of Wight) forwards to us her im-perfect copy, we will exchange it for a perfect one. FLOY'S request is complied with. A knitted opera hood appears in this month's number of the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE. CASHLEMA.- "Magenta," "Solferino," "Rose deGuerre," &c., &c., are names given to those differentcolours of a crimson cast that have lately been sofashionable. GEORGIANA BENEDICT.- There are many solid advantages connected with the possession of wealth,which are by no means to be derided. Health forthe loved ones of the family can be bought, or, at any rate, the best means of arriving at good health- viz., fresh air, good food, airy bedrooms. The education of your children can be purchased, and a chance afforded them of working out successfullytheir career in life when their parents' labours haveceased. Again, there are persons in the possessionof wealth who would tyrannize over and subjectall within their circles, and these people carenaught for anything excepting the power of money. Let them, however, see that an equally rich indi-vidual displays the wish to protect and befriend the poor and oppressed, and our tyrant will "roar himhumbly as a sucking dove." Besides, and beforeall, during inclement weather, is it not well to be a rich man, that you can give to those who want them good food and warm clothing? BETA.- "Una corda" means a chord. The patternsuggested shall be considered. UNE PETITE FILLE.- It is not necessary to writethe Christian name on the cheque. J. T. MORLEY had much better buy one at the shops. They are seldom made well at home. MRS. ANNE.- In some futuer number of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE a baby's robe, in open embroidery, will appear. LAURA A. BROWN.- Bouquets of flowers willappear occasionally, suitable for the purpose youmention. MRS. HENRY GREENE.- The Editress cannot undertake to answer letters by post. The braiding pattern must be traced twice, and the point of junction will be easily seen. A. P.- Directions for working the collar and cuffswill be found on the pink sheet accompanying the January number of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE. A SUBSCRIBER (Southampton).- The Publisherhas in preparation a complete series of articles relative to recreations for ladies. Artificial-flowermaking, both in wax and paper, will form one of the projected treatises. Everything that is known respecting the art will be given, and there will be added several new processes, easy of performance, and calculated, it is confidently hoped, to enhancethe interest of the pursuit in the eyes of the fair readers of this Magazine. RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- "Lines for an Album;" "Aunt Gertrude," Dr. Steinmetz; "Sorrow Worketh Death;" "Fare Thee Well," a Valentine; "The Researches of an Antiquarian;" "On the Death of Edgar A. Poe," L. M. Thornton; "The ScotchLegend;" "Married!" J. W. Roe; "The Lost One," S.; "New Year's Eve," L. F.; "The Boar's Head Festival," L. F.; May Customs," and "Eclipses," E. du Bois.l "A Trot to a Lucerne Rifle Match;" "Not for Me;" "Humble Worth," Miss Pateman; "Wild Flowers," J. R. B.; "Reminiscences of the Past," Agnes; "Passes Away," Jean; "A Cloud with a Silver Lining," C. S. W.; "The Snowdrop," a Legend; "Ecce Homo;" "The Volunteers;" "Uncle Harry's Ghost Story," J. Hay, S. Escott. NOTICE TO THOSE WHO SEND MSS., POEMS, &c.- The Editor regrets that it is quite impossible to acknowledge, in the limited space at his disposal, all the contributions he receives. Nor is he able to return unaccepted MSS.; consequently, copies shouldbe retained by the writers. NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.Covers for Vol. 1 of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE (New Series), with the title-page, preface, index, envelope for holding the pattern sheets, Berlin patterns, &c., and directions for binding, are now ready, price is 1s. each. Sent free by post to anyaddress on receipt of 12 postage stamps. Volume I. of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE, elegantly bound in green and gold, is now ready, with the six Coloured Berlin and other Patterns, and 129 Designs for Embroidery and other Needlework. Price 4s. 6d., free by post on receipt of postage stamps for this amount. Volume II., uniform with Volume I., will be ready on April 15th, price 5s. Our Subscribers are respectfully invited to give their orders at once to their Booksellers for theregular supply of the Numbers of this Magazine, so as to be certain to receive them as soon as pub-lished, with the Fashion Plates and Berlin WoolWork Patterns complete, the Publisher begging to notify that he cannot guarantee the supply of the Fashion Plates and Coloured Berlin Patterns beyonda month after their first issue. London, 248, Strand, W. C. /* April 1861 (Series 2, Vol. 2, No. 12, p. 289-336)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 336 - PDF page 665 */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONEANNIE SIDNEY. What-ever the Lowestoft ladiesmay have determined onin the matter of abandoning night-caps, they are certainly asyet in the minority. English ladies who are blessed with heads of hairthat can vie with the beauties of Macassar, Southern Italy, or Spain, may, perhaps, dispense with the night-cap: but eighty percent, of our countrywomen find it necessary to preserve their tresses from being brokenor worn off on the pillow. Besides, thereare considerations of neatness and clean-liness appertaining to the night-cap which are not to be hastily set aside. JULIA FROST.- No, madam, it cannot be done. If you have a moustache growing upon your upperlip you must bear it like - well, like a woman; and we know that the endurance of a woman is equal to anything. Consolation, however, may come to youin this form, perhaps - the dark-complexioned girlsof Spain are thought, by all who have seen them,extremely beautiful, and upon their upper lips thedowny hair is not unfrequently observed. VICTORIA.- "Clematis" has the accent on thesecond syllable, "Heliotrope" on the first. LOUISA, EMMELINE, L. A. (Ireland) - Send thetop part of the wrapper of Part 3 of the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, and we will acceptit as a substitute for the absent cheque. H. A. B.- Our books are published two days before the first of each month, so that they mayreach any part of the kingdom by the first of the month. See notice on wrapper in reference to the date at which the receipt of the cheques for theprizes will expire. HARRIE - "Friends" are those who are supposedto act friendly towards us. Now, if your so-styledfriends give you pain by teasing you about "blush-ing so," that is not a friendly act. But are you quite sure you do all you can, under good advice, to strengthen your nerves? Long lying in bed isproverbially weakening. C. M. SMITH.- You can have the title-page,index, and preface sent you without the cloth cover, if you wish it, for three postage stamps. A SUBSCRIBER.- There are fifty different systemsof short-hand. We have now in the press "ShortHandwriting and Reporting," which will be thebest thing of its kind. UNE PETITE FILLE.- Perhaps the simplest and most efficacious method of whitening hands that are not stained by constant use in domestic occu-pations is to wash them morning and night in thin gruel - simply oatmeal gruel. PANDORA.- If you refer to the wrapper on the May number of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE, you will find full instructions for for-warding the cheques. MILLY.- Give your love birds plenty of clean, fine sand, clear water, good air, and a warm room. Feed them on small insects, and anything else theywill take; but you cannot hope to preserve them long in this climate. CHARLOTTE.- "Hoyle's Games," which can bepurchased at a shilling, will explain the pack of cards. Instructions are always given on the buff pattern sheets how to work the principal objects depicted. OMNES.- Every suggestion, of the most triflingkind, is "made a note of," and we are grateful forthem. Such things as we cannot produce at once, upon request, will appear as soon as possible. A CONSTANT READER.- When you receive a number of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGA-ZINE, minus a cheque on the wrapper, you may send the top of the wrapper, and we will accept it in place of the cheque. For the affliction from whichyou suffer we should strongly urge you to consult a physician; at your youthful age you may becured. EDITH.- The Prince of Wales is called afterneither father nor mother. He signs himself"Albert." BELL.- The Top of the wrapper, the part of the first page containing the number of the monthly part. AMY.- We do not believe in any outward appli-cation restoring hair where the head has become actually bald. In all cases of the hair falling off, it shows that there is something radically defectivein the constitution, and a medical man had betterbe first consulted as to the cause. The most vigorous constitutions have generally the most luxuriant hair. The following recipe, however, is not absolutely mischievous, and may be usedsparingly:- Eau de Cologne, two ounces; tinctureof cantharides, two drachms; oil of lavender or rosemary, of each ten drops. Do not use oftener than twice a week. R. S.- The price of Mrs. Beeton's "Book of Household Management," when finished, will be 7s. 6d. or 8s., according to the number of parts required to make it a complete book. It is difficult to determine how many parts will conclude a book like this. FIX.- Are you quite sure you have not indulged in a little facetiousness when you talk about a washfor the hair, "purchased at a respectable chemist's," turning your hair "green, violet, and yellow?" Wethink an action for fraud would lie against thevendor of an article which professed to impart a raven lustre to frosty locks, but which really meta-morphosed sober gray into the colours of the rainbow. M. M. S.- Certainly not. You may refuse to take in parcels or letters, and not taking them inexculpates you from the payment of their carriage, especially when they reach you without your know-ledge or consent. B OF F.- Your suggestion that the "Book ofHousehold Management" should contain bills offare for small dinners and suppers - say, for six or eight persons, &c.- will be carried out. Thanks for further hints. DECLINED WITH THANKS.- L.; Emilie (Brussels); Miss Beedle; Eblin Mac Coolze; Kate. NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.Covers for Vol. 1 of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE (New Series), with the title-page, preface, index, envelope for holding the pattern sheets, Berlin patterns, &c., and directions for binding, are now ready, price is 1s. each. Sent free by post to anyaddress on receipt of 12 postage stamps. Volume I. of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE, elegantly bound in green and gold, is now ready, with the six Coloured Berlin and other Patterns, and 129 Designs for Embroidery and other Needlework. Price 4s. 6d., free by post on receipt of postage stamps for this amount. Volume II., uniform with Volume I., will be ready on April 15th, price 5s. Our Subscribers are respectfully invited to give their orders at once to their Booksellers for theregular supply of the Numbers of this Magazine, so as to be certain to receive them as soon as pub-lished, with the Fashion Plates and Berlin WoolWork Patterns complete, the Publisher begging to notify that he cannot guarantee the supply of the Fashion Plates and Coloured Berlin Patterns beyonda month after their first issue. London, 248, Strand, W. C. /* The Englishwoman’s Domestic MagazineSecond Series, Volume 3 Correspondence Sections as Plain Text Link: Series 2 Volumes 1-3 in one Google Books PDF here https://www.google.com/books/edition/The_Englishwoman_s_domestic_magazine_Imp/mGUEAAAAQAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0Volume note: Numbers are now 48 pages, with No. 13 having 72 pages.Prepared by Julie M. Sorge WayPreparation notes: Line breaks preserved from the original *//* May 1861 (Series 2, Vol. 3, No. 13, p. 1-72)Notices to Correspondents, p. 71 - PDF page 740, The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 72 - PDF page  741*/NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS.A. M. W.- The first volume of the "Dictionary" embraces the letters "A to D;" the second goes to "L;" the third will complete the alphabet. Thelast half-dozen parts will be double parts - i.e., they will contain sixty-four pages, and be charged 6d. ELISE R.- Muslin and fancy curtains are nowmanufactured so cheaply, that few people take the trouble to make them for themselves. MARY STUART.- We do not think this pattern would be much cared for by our subscribers. F. M. V.- These will appear in due course. LAURA.- Gentlemen do not wear engaged rings. LISETTE.- The pattern you mention appeared inNo. 2 of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, New Series. You can have this number from us fortwo postage stamps. EMMELINE.- The Gardening book does containthe information you seek. MISS STOKES.- There will be such patterns as youask for issued in due course with the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE. M. SHEPHEARD.- Earthenware moulds are betterthan tin ones for jelly, as the latter are apt to spoilthe colour of the preparation. N. E.- We do not think our young lady friendswould care much about this; besides, our corre-spondent appears to require three patterns of oneshirt. ELEANOR FRANCIS.- We will, if possible, mention your suggestion in the Fashion article; but it wouldbe impossible to give an entire pattern. ELLEN BATCHELER.- We really cannot entertainyour proposition at all. D. O. N. E.- Any of the Cambridge local paperswill give you the information you seek. MRS. WANNOP.- This shall be given the firstopportunity. P. G.- Apply to a chiropodist. FLORENCE.- The patterns and fashions of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE may be bound up in the volume, but we have adopted the plan of inserting the buff patterns in an envelope - with which we can supply you - and attaching this envelope to the volume by an india-rubber band. C. C.- Seven recipes for Omelets are given in Mrs. Beeton's "Book of Household Management." E. H. must declare the name of her father andmother. MISS F. SAUNDERS.- Apply to Mr. Lacy, Theatrical Publisher, in the Strand, London, for acatalogue of his works, and you will get from that all the information you require. A CONSTANT SUBSCRIBER.- It is somewhat ques-tionable, but we think the interest can be claimed. A SUBSCRIBER.- At the National Debt and Governn-ment Annuity Office, 19, Old Jewry, London, youcan obtain the information you require. MINNIE AND LENA are informed that the cheque in the April part of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE for this year must be sent up with the other eleven cheques to entitle the subscriber to a chance in the ballot. SARAH.- Send us your address with the mutilatedcollar, and we will forward you a perfect one, postfree. JULIET, A. B. C.- The title-pages and indexes to the first two volumes of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, New Series, can be had with-out the covers at 5d. the two, post free. PETEA.- We shall have much pleasure in givingthe pattern you ask, if we can contrive one to suita number of our subscribers; otherwise it would be impracticable. C. COPEMAN.- The best advice we can give you is, in the event of nothing turning up to your advantage, to determine upon the occupation which best suits you, and then try and make arrangements for giving your services for awhile to somebody who would in return instruct you in his or her business. ESTELLA.- A piece of coloured ribbon should be tacked under the cuff, which throws up the em-broidery and hides the piece of muslin. ESTELLA complains of. By sending twelve postage-stamps to Messrs. Vincent and Conrad, 4, Princes-street,Fitzroy-square, they will trace you a collar the samepattern as the "Garibaldi," but rather larger roundthe neck. JULIA MARY.- Your request will be complied with as soon as possible. ALICIA.- Short remnants of silk ribbon may be purchased at almost any respectable draper's, andat a reasonable price. But there are places inLondon where "pieces" of anything can be bought, and your draper would give you their addresses, we should think. REGINA.- An anti-macassar pattern, with fullinstructions for working the same, appeared in the November number of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE.C. A.- The "Ladies' Dictionary of Needlework"is out of print. PAMELA.- A little scraped French chalk laid onthe greasy spot will sometimes remove the grease. The "Garibaldi" cuff should be folded over so thatthe two B's come together. MRS. BLUNDELL.- The stationer from whom youprocure your note-paper will be the best person toapply to. EMMELINE.- The best way would be to get a goodmilliner to make one of these up. In making up caps of this sort so much depends on taste, that it would be almost useless to give the pattern of the mere head-piece. E. BUTTERWORTH should send to one of the many houses who undertake to forward these patterns bypost. BLANCHE shoudl read Brillat Savarin's "Physio-logie du Gout," and when she has read it - follow his advice. If after this she get too thin, she may return to the same book for hints how to get stout again. MISS ALLT.- Perhaps we may be able to attend to some of these requests, but certainly not to all of them. MISS CARROLL.- Directions for tracing the pat-terns on muslin will be found in the May numberof the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, Vol. III. ETHEL May.- Your question is one which it wouldnot be exactly discreet to answer in these columns;it is a question for a medical man to answer. But, touching the smoking of tobacco by women, we know it is practised extensively in Easternlands, and even in England and Ireland, with morepicturesque than sanitary effects. P. H. EDGE.- The cost of binding, in cloth, the four volumes of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE, Old Series, would be 4s. 8d.; the fourvolumes of the "Family Friend," 4s. NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.Covers for Vols. I. and II. of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE (New Series), with title-page, preface, index, envelope for holding the pattern sheets, Berlin patterns, &c., and directions for bind-ing, are now ready, price is 1s. each. Sent free by post to any address on receipt of 12 postage stamps. Volume I. of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE, elegantly bound in green and gold, is now ready, with the six Coloured Berlin and other Patterns, and 129 Designs for Embroidery and other Needlework. Price 4s. 6d., free by post on receipt of postage stamps for this amount. Volume II., uniform with Volume I., now ready, price 5s. Our Subscribers are respectfully invited to give their orders at once to their Booksellers for theregular supply of the Numbers of this Magazine, so as to be certain to receive them as soon as pub-lished, with the Fashion Plates and Berlin WoolWork Patterns complete, the Publisher begging to notify that he cannot guarantee the supply of the Fashion Plates and Coloured Berlin Patterns beyonda month after their first issue. London, 248, Strand, W. C. THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONE MARIANNE. Thereare, we were going to say, thousands of specifics forcuring corns, hard and soft. Butsuch as we know of are adaptedto different constitutions. Youcannot do better, we think, to rid your-self of your soft corns safely and effec-tually than bathing the feet nightly in warm water, and paring away the cornsuntil they disappear. VIOLET.- We should say that the very best thing you can do is make yourselfworthy of any gentleman who may proposeto you, and be quite sure your whole and soleaffections are centred upon him who is to be yourpartner through life. MARION W.- Mrs. Beeton's "Book of HouseholdManagement" will come out first in one volume, but future editions may probably be issued in otherforms. You can have ours or other books bound inany fashion you choose, if you send your instructionsin full. A SUBSCRIBER.- Nothing but dye will turn greyhair brown or black. The stain is not permanent:it is merely the one good turn which will deserve another. LOTTIE.- We are obliged to study the generality of tastes in selecting the Berlin patterns, and asLottie says a Scripture subject would be considered old-fashioned, and is in reality old-fashioned, where would be our warrant for inserting such a thing in the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE? Ourgrandmothers used to work such patterns, our sub-scribers would not, and for them we study novelty. VICTORIA.- "Piesse" is sometimes pronounced in the same way as the French word "piece." It is also often pronounced "peace." Write to Mr. Piessehimself, and ask how he likes to be called. CELIA.- The pamphlet we think you mean is intituled "Courtship and Marriage," and is publishedby Hamilton and Co., price 6d. It is the substanceof a lecture delivered in Birmingham by Dr. Miller, and is a most humorous, hearty, and sensible effusion. Both sexes might read it with immense profit, be they married or single. E. C. N., JULIA.- Groups of flowers and borderswill appear, suitable for the back of a chair; but the size of our Magazine will not admit of a patternbeing given for this purpose alone. A very little ingenuity will suggest combinations of the patterns already supplied, so as to adapt them to a variety of purposes. A beautiful group of flowers appears with this Magazine. MARY T.- We have heard of most wonderful cures of warts by a process called "charming," curesso wonderful indeed, that we can neither accountfor them nor deny them. There can be no objection to your submitting the eradication of your warts to a charming friend; but, before you submit to the operation, be sure you are not placing yourself in the hands of a quack. One of the latest theories upon warts is, that they are nervous excrescences, and that they appear or disappear according to the state of mind of the person who has them. PENELOPE.- We most reluctantly tell PENELOPEthat she is not altogether as amiable in manner as was her fair sister, whose name she assumes. Ourmodern PENELOPE is very abrupt in her style of raising objections. She may not wear nightcaps, but there are thousands who do; and we hope that the pattern given with this number of the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE will please a largenumber of our subscribers. If PENELOPE cannot work the collar and cuffs she should take lessons in embroidery. The pattern was chosen for its sim-plicity. Bead patterns will appear in due time. Rowlands' Kalydor is undoubtedly to be recom-mended for the complexion. As to your handwriting, it is far too thick and stiff to be elegant. MARIANNE F., T. JEWSBURY.- We have no room for the contribution you propose, and we cannotsupply the nom de plume you ask for. We must have the proper name and address with every com-munication, but we need not insert other than the nom de plume.MARTHA, ROWENA, A. KINLOCK.- There is norule laid down by any editor or editors as to the reception or rejection of manuscripts from outsiders, and the price of payment for such as are acceptedis purely arbitrary. We would advise you and any contributor who desire to make way in the literary world, first to submit your manuscript to somebodywho can, and will, give an opinion upon its worth, and then to endeavor to obtain an introduction to an editor who would give your contribution his consideration. We have no room for the manu-scripts you propose to send. LUCY will, most probably, soon find the names she requires for the corners of handkerchiefs; but with the Alphabets, large and small, before her, what is easier than to make the names for herself? JANE.- We are a little surprised at your notunderstanding how the collar is worked. The leaves should be worked solid, the stalks eithersewn over or in button-hole stitch, and the pieces of muslin between the outer edge and the leaves shouldbe cut away, leaving a net ground, which should be dotted after the muslin is cut away. No other part of the muslin should be cut away except that marked with the little crosses. ROSE MAY.- As announced in the answer to PENELOPE, bead patterns, and other novel and pretty designs, are in progress for our Magazine. The border is Part 5 of the ENGLISHWOMAN'SDOMESTIC MAGAZINE woudl make a very pretty fender stool. LA JEUNE FILLE.- Net in the usual manner bycommencing on one stitch and then increasing at each end. When you have netter sufficient for the width of the anti-macassar, continue to increase at one side only, marking the side with a piece of coloured wool, that no mistake may be made; after having worked as many rows as are required, decrease at both ends until you have but one stitchleft. The netting should then be washed, starched, and pinned out in the right shape. Before LA JEUNE FILLE attempts to write French, we should advise her most respectfully to study the genders of sub-stantives. A. MACKINSON.- We have many other subscribersbesides High Church people, and we are sure (or, as our correspondent spells it, shure) no one butherself would care to work such a pattern as the one she describes. Our Saviour on the Cross, drawn upon "a dark ground, almost black, the expressionof grief on the features most impressive, the bodya beautiful flesh colour, and the blood streaming from the wounds most natural," are pictures to be preserved in the innermost recesses of the home, not to be trifled with and made common. LOTTIE.- Your habit of "frequently yawning when reading aloud" is owing to one of two things - either you are sleepy, or inattentive to both yoursubject and your auditors. When you have had a good night's rest, read Longfellow's "Evangeline" or Dickens's "Christmas Carol" to your lover, and, if you do not yawn, remember henceforth that it is concentration of purpose which prevents the in-elegant habit you complain of. ISIDORA KATE.- You really cannot do better thanput yourself under the hands of a respectable hair-dresser, who will solve one question - we can settlethe other so far as a matter of opinion is concerned Curls are not "suited to a round, somewhat fatand rosy, childish face;" we should think the style a la Eugenie would become you better. Try half-a-dozen or more styles, and take the opinions of yourfriends. Nothing will prevent the hair falling out of curl in damp weather, if you go into the damp. /* June 1861 (Series 2, Vol. 3, No. 14, p. 73-120)The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 120 - PDF page 797 */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONERUTH.- Night dressesare more generally madewith collars than without. The suggestions for making mohair and print dresses, given in the "Fashions" article for last month, will, we trust, please our corre-spondent: they are practical. A braidingpattern for the front of a waistcoat, to be worn under Zouave jackets, appeared in the April number (Part 12) of the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE. It is not usual to wear jackets under Zouaves. Itwould be hardly worth while inserting a pattern of a short sleeve for a child's frock, as thosesleeves may be almost cut out "by guess." Theymay be made with two frills cut on the cross-wayof the stuff, and finished off with a French hem: orthey may be made with one large or two small puffs, and bound at the bottom, this binding being finishedoff with a piece of embroidery or lace. The best place to purchase wax flowers and materials formaking them is Mr. Mintorn's, 33, Soho-square. JUNO.- Persevere, by all means, with your model-ling; it is an elegant accomplishment, and an ad-mirable training for the observing faculties. Butdo not persevere in error. If you are inclined to pay a small fee to an honest, professional sculptor, we would send him to confer with you: he is toobusy to leave his studio on mere chivalrous deeds. AGNES.- You are sometimes perplexed and em-barrassed, you say, because the gentleman whooccupies part of your house, and is in reality a friend of the family, addresses you in the drawing-room, before your friends, by your Christian name. He is a "good fellow," you say, and used to be your playmate in years gone by. Should you object tothe freedom? We think not. If your lord and master do not object, or, at least, do not make mani-fest his objection, it would scarcely be kind in youto put restraint upon the actions of a modest, generous-hearted man. ETHEL STAUNTON.- The difference between HighChurch and Low Church may be shortly expressed thus:- The one stands upon forms, and the other doesn't. But, to be serious, the followers of HighChurch doctrines exhibit a large amount of earnest-ness both in their devotions and their charitable enterprises; whilst the Low Church, equally earnest, perhaps, are more prone to hide their lights undera bushel. R. M. EVANS.- It is an evidence of nice taste to desire to know the correct pronunciation of proper names; quite as pleasing as to address letters in the form of person's own signatures. With respect to "the pronunciation of Lord Lyveden's name," we have ascertained that the first syllable, "Lyve," rhymes with "hive," "gyve," &c. Lyve-den is pronounced in two syllables - Lyve-den. Thank you for the erratum you suggest. FANNY.- We think mourning or remembrancerings may, with strict propriety, be worn upon anyfinger; but the little finger and that next to it aremostly used. STUDENT.- Satin stitch consists, always, of thickraised embroidery, that is to say, the muslin or material on which it is worked is never cut out noropen. It is done by tracing the pattern well withrather a coarser cotton than the one with which thesatin stitch is worked, and then by sewing over and over this tracing in a neat finished manner with rather a fine cotton. Care must be taken to work the stitches as closely together as possible, so thatthe work, when finished, looks well raised from the muslin. UNA.- We entirely agree with you that the word "female" is frequently used out of place, and con-sequently becomes most offensive to ears polite. To call a woman a strong-minded female is dis-gusting in a double sense, whilst it is quite tolerableand correct to speak of the "number of males andfemales in the last census." Woman is a simple, dignified word. Englishwoman, we think, more-over, is a fine expression of a fine idea, and we thank Una for aiding to extend its use. S. EMERY, and NELLY PERCY.- No outward appli-cation to the skin could possibly prevent yourblushing, or hide the blush when it "mantled to thecheek." Your blushing proceeds from nervousness. Take medical advice upon the condition of yournervous system, and if that be strengthened you willgain moral confidence, and be then as happy in society, whether "by gaslight or sunlight," as youare now unhappy and perplexed. We do not re-commend any other wash than the primitive wash of soap and water. Nelly Percy might try a Turkishbath. LUCY BERESFORD is kind enough to write us - "That, as MARY T. has brought warts under discus-sion, and as she may probably be glad to knowthat tincture of steel has often been found to curethem when other things have failed, and as it is aremedy I believe to be not generally known, I have ventured to write to you upon the subject." This isvery kind of our correspondent. Q.- We must ask Q. to read the above answer to NELLY PERCY. We really must stay our pen from giving too many recipes for "outward applications," washes, &c., to remove eruptions or improve the appearance of the skin; for it is as plain as aught is plain, that the cause of cutaneous disease lieswithin - in the state of the blood - and in this matterthe doctor should be consulted. If your chilblainsproceed from standing in a cold room - and it isvery probable - you must, as Abernethy would have said, "get away from that." But be sure you donot tamper with yourself, should you be unable to bend circumstances to your comfort. OMNES.- The title-pages and indexes to Vols. I.and II. of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, New Series, may be had a 1d. each, or, post free, 2d. - the two, post free, 3d. MISS CARROLL.- Mrs. Wilcockson, 44, Goodge-street, Tottenham-court-road, will trace any pattern on muslin that Miss Carroll may require. Mrs. W. will also supply any kind of cotton for working the pattern. Directions to subscribers how to tracetheir own patterns will be found in the last part of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE. /* Same NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS as previous month. *//* July 1861 (Series 2, Vol. 3, No. 15, p. 121-168), The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 168 - PDF page 849 (clearer in Archive.org copy available athttps://archive.org/details/sim_englishwomans-domestic-magazine_1852-1862_3_0/page/168/mode/2up ) */THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONESOPHIA ANDERSON.- What a happy thing it is that those who know leastand are capable of achieving thesmallest results are those whocry out the loudest about the tools they have to work with, and com-plain the most unreasonably of that which is the most likely right in itself, butwhich they are not able to understand or appreciate! Now, hear our good friend and subscriber, SOPHIA ANDERSON. Shesays, ferociously enough, "It is my opinion, and that of my friends, that if you under-take at all to offer patterns to the public in your ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, you shouldoffer correct ones, not lead people to waste time, and perhaps material, in endeavouring to manufacturearticles of clothing from your incorrect patterns. Ishould like to know how it would be possible tomake a little boy's jacket with a back piece, such asyou have depicted in this month's (June) number? There is no place for the arm-hole. I was fortunatein fitting and testing the paper copy I took before I ventured further, and so spared my holland if I wasted my time." Commotion in the office of the ENGLISHWOMAN when this missive was opened - the Editor and his staff looking like so many monumentsof despair. Recovering himself, however, our chief bravely put the bomb in his pocket, and deliveredit, duly and impressively (with the other most kind andcompensatory letters, be it gratefully said), to the Editress, the responsible person in this instance. Undismayed, but evidently hurt at the ingratitudeof SOPHIA and her friends, she calmly, and beforethe chief's very eyes, traced the pattern on to some whitey-brown paper: first pinned it together and then tacked it, showing us triumphantly a little boy's jacket in paper, with arm-hole, sleeve, and cuff, as complete as possible. So, when SOPHIA ANDERSON "would like to know how it would be possible," &c., she has only to write to the Editress,who will have great pleasure in taking her out ofany difficulty she may find herself in with respectto the patterns. Moreover, in this special instance, the Editress is anxious to send to her, on receipt of the address, this very pattern, exactly as she put it together when its correctness was impugned. Thechief trusts that SOPHIA ANDERSON will make the amende honorable by sending a handsome - well, he will leave the choice to a committee of taste, composed of herself and friends. KATE, AGNES, FLORA, &c., &c., - We have receivedseveral letters touching the long-promised series ofarticles on Wayside Weeds and Forest Flowers. Our fair correspondents complain that we have al-lowed the flowers of spring to come and go without saying a word about them; and have not even con-descended to notice the arrival of the flauntingbeauties of summer. We have never forgotten our promise, and though we may be accused of slighting those "pretty daughters of the earth and sin," by whom our hearts are linked to Nature, we are really over head and ears in love with them. We have for some time been considering how we ought to in-troduce them to our readers, and have at length re-solved to reject our original plan for one much more comprehensive. Instead of a few desultory papers on wild flowers, we mean to give our readers a course of familiar lectures on Botany - not the botany of schoolmen, with its forbidding nomencla-ture and terrible array of physiological facts, but the botany which may be studied in the garden, the wood, or the meadow, by any flower-loving English-woman. Though our series, when complete, will form a systematic treatise on the most delightfulbranch of Natural History, we shall take care to exclude all technical terms and dry details. We love the simple names which the poetic instinct of mankind has given to flowers far too well to ex-change them for those which pass current amongmen of science. We intend to give the first of ourbotanical papers in our next number, or, at latest, in September. CONTESSA wrote some time since a pretty letter to us - and if we had not so many pretty letters we should like to take notice of every one of them - and said, "You may, perhaps, be please to knowthat I have worked the Oriental Slippers given in the January number, and they look superb. Theofficer (oh, happy son of Mars!) who has become their fortunate possessor is obliged to keep themunder lock and key, when not in use, lest they should be feloniously abstracted by his envious comrades. I can safely recommend your lady readers to follow my example if they wish to charm either father, brother, or fiance with a birthday gift. And forthose unfortunate damsels in such trouble abouttheir complexions, and strait hair, I may, perhaps, have a secret worth knowing - do you think I ought to tell them? Perhaps, if they ask me very prettily, I will. Chorus of ill-complexioned ladies - "Come, charming Contessa, tell us, tell us the secret youpossess." BLUE BELL.- "Are ices dangerous to the health?" and "Do we recommend summer balls, not ex-temporised al fresco assemblies, but bona fide balls, where taste should reign triumphant?" To the first question we say, "Yes;" but we eat them, moderately it is true, because we like them; and to the second question we answer, "Yes," in our most decided manner. By a little ingenuity and sometaste, a ball on a July evening, with the windows down, doors open, flower-garden and lawn ap-parently extending the area of the dancing space, not too much light within to spoil the beaming moon without, vases of mignonette, sweet herbs, and one or two Eolian harps placed where the zephyrs can play upon and through them, will charm those subjected to their influence in a mannerwhich persons who have never tried them believeonly Eastern lands can boast. CONTRIBUTIONS RESPECTFULLY DECLINED, from A. Hartley, Anon, Z. Z., H. B., E. H. B., MissM'Kinndo, J. W., Matilda Hillhouse, "Pauline," "Just in Time," "What the Stars Say." SPECIAL NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS.- Com-munications arriving later than the 10th of the month preceding that of publication cannot be re-plied to in the forthcoming number of the "English-woman's Domestic Magazine." /* Same NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS as previous month. *//* August 1861 (Series 2, Vol. 3, No. 16, p. 169-216)Answers to Correspondents, p. 215 - PDF page 900, The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 216 - PDF page 901 */ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS VIOLET MORTIMER. The price is about six or seven shillings. - EUGENIE ANTOINETTE. Reallyyou must consult a doctor. - GERTRUDE. Silk-worms' silk, as produced by amateurs, is next toworthless for manufacturing purposes. You might, perhaps, sell the cocoons, could you produce themby the hundred. - HOPE HOUSE. A braiding designis being prepared for a cushion the shape yousuggest. - ELEANOR BARTLETT. The hats may be purchased at any good milliner's Evans and Co.'s Cottons may be had of Mrs. Wilcockson. The bestsize of embroidery cotton to work the nightcap is that of Messrs. Evans and Co's Perfectionne No. 12. - E. LEEDS. The "cheques" are printed on thewrapper of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGA-ZINE, together with instructions how they are to be disposed of. - SNOWDROP will, we doubt not, findall the recipes for cakes that she requires in Mrs. Beeton's "Book of Household Management," pub-lished in monthly parts, price 3d. The work will be completed in twenty four parts; part 22 is published this month. - X. Y. Z. It is quite as cheap to buy theinvisible hair-nets as to make them - SOPHIA. Youcan have the two Indexes and Prefaces to the twovolumes of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGA-ZINE, New Series, separate from the numbers, by remitting to us four postage-stamps. T. A. C. The pattern of a jacket suitable for the house appearedin Part 7 of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGA-ZINE. - FLORENCE. If you want genuine extract of quinine, you had better apply to a respectable chy-mist. - A SUBSCRIBER. Lace pelerines are more usually worn with low bodies than with high ones. Two patterns for these pretty little articles weregiven on the back of the Buff Sheet in Parts 2 and 9 of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE.- MRS. PRIOR. An out-door jacket for a little boy appearsin the June part of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE. - MINNIE We shall not be able to giveanother slipper pattern for some time, as two have already appeared. - AUGUSTA ST. JOHN. Capper's, in Gracechurch-street, is a very good shop for ready-made linen and children's dresses. - "CONSTANT SUB-SCRIBER" - Please adopt some other signature than this. Any milliner would get the pattern for you. - H. HOLLOWAY. We will comply with your re-quest the first opportunity. - LITTLE MURIEL canhave the sheet she wants sent her upon remittingfour postage-stamps. - POMONA. The group of flowers that appears in the May number of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE wouldanswer for the back of a chair. - J. E. E. POPE. Entomologists of a romantic turn of mind go in forthe "cow" theory, but we are inclined to think that your own supposition is the correct one - that theants pursue the gelatinous substance formed on the leaf of the plant by the aphis, rather than the aphis itself. - MARY W. PEASE. Indeed, my dear madam, we have never undertaken to do anything of the kind; but if you send to Mrs. Wilcockson, of Goodge-street, Tottenham-court-road, she will execute your com-missions with punctuality and despatch. - MARIELOUISE should wear the engaged ring upon the same finger on which the wedding ring is to be worn. What can be more obvious? You will let theworld see that you are in the right track, and you will get used to the idea of the "plain gold circle." - MRS. CORNELIUS. We cannot possibly complywith your request. No pains will be spared to answer the questions of our correspondents in the "Conversazione," but it would be almost a physicalimpossibility to open, and keep going, a private correspondence about patterns, methods of sewing, cooking, and writing and reading, &c, &c. It is only by husbanding our minutes for most legitimate work that we can do justice to our Magazine. - H. M. WILLIS. On September 21st, 1860, we sent you parts of this magazine, May to September, and continued them to April, being twelve months, the subscription for which would be 10s. Your favour, with 10s. intrusted to our care for the future numbers, came safe on the 1st of last month. We are obligedto have all subscriptions paid in advance, otherwise the enormous amount of labour and cost in keeping  accounts with some thousands of subscribers wouldentail upon us a heavy cost. - CHEQUES. Whereany parts of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGA-ZINE have been printed without cheques, send up, with your cheques, the tops of the wrappers. - W. S. F. We have no opening for the employmentof your pen. - 18962, 45579, 17411, are the numbersof cheques sent us without any addresses. If the owners of these cheques send their names and addresses they shall be registered. - J. JONES. The French book, with Key, published by Cassell, is the book for your purpose; and Messrs. Kent publish a good book on Etiquette for Gentlemen, at 1s.The French books cost four or five shillings. - ANNIE. One of the best things you can do with old postage-stamps, as we have before advised, is to put them into the fire, and turn your attention to something more profitable than collecting them. - ENGLISHWOMAN. There are no cheques given with the bound volumes of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, New Series - the cheques are only given with the Parts. You can have all the back parts form our house, or through any book-seller. - BETSY BARNES. Yes. Post free for 1s. 4d. - FANNY, EMILY, MRS. THOMPSON, &c, &c. We have been requested by numerous correspondentsto supply them with various lengths of Copestake's Coventry Cambric Frilling; but as we cannot, withpropriety, comply with their requests, we beg to saythat Mrs. Wilcockson, Goodge-street, Tottenham-court-road, or Mr. W. W. Sheath, 261, Regent-street, London, will be happy to do so. - HORTICULTURE. The Calendar of Gardening operations has appeared, complete, in the 12 parts of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, New Series, and we think it unnecessary to repeat that feature when it would be little else than a duplicate. - MRS. MASKELYNE FARINGDON. - The Prizes to be given away thisyear to the subscribers to the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE are 500 Engravings, pub-lished at a guinea each. What the Prizes will be next year we have not yet determined. - T. MONKS. We gave the page of "Answers to Correspondents" in a recent number of the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE because our corre-spondence had increased to such formidable dimen-sions. We can, however, never answer all the queries submitted to us, and are compelled to make selections - for the most part giving preference to questions of general utility. CONTRIBUTIONS RESPECTFULLY DECLINED.- "WildFlowers;" "On a Curl of Baby's Hair;" "A Changein Life;" "Self-Love;" "A Shadow of the Past;" "Evening." NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.Covers for Vols. I. and II. of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE (New Series), with title-page, preface, index, envelope for holding the pattern sheets, Berlin patterns, &c., and directions for bind-ing, are now ready, price is 1s. each. Sent free by post to any address on receipt of 12 postage stamps. Volume I. of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTICMAGAZINE, elegantly bound in green and gold, is now ready, with the six Coloured Berlin and other Patterns, and 129 Designs for Embroidery and other Needlework. Price 4s. 6d., free by post on receipt of postage stamps for this amount. Volume II., uniform with Volume I., now ready, price 5s. Our Subscribers are respectfully invited to give their orders at once to their Booksellers for theregular supply of the Numbers of this Magazine, so as to be certain to receive them as soon as pub-lished, with the Fashion Plates and Berlin WoolWork Patterns complete, the Publisher begging to notify that he cannot guarantee the supply of the Fashion Plates and Coloured Berlin Patterns beyonda month after their first issue. London, 248, Strand, W. C. THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONESAPPHO. "Is it possible to become a cor-rect French scholar by self-tuition?" Not practically and theoretically. You cannot teach yourself the pronunciation, but you can do this much :- Begin as you would any other study, with simple, cautious steps. Write down and commit to memory a score of nouns at a time, and do not write the second score until the first be as familiar as your mother tongue. This is quite easy. When you have learneda thousand, or even five hundred nouns, taketo adjectives, pronouns &c., then phrases, sentences, &c. Write them on slips of paper, and carry themabout with you. Do not attempt to pronounce asingle word during the process of self-tuition. When you have made yourself mistress of a thou-sand conventional questions and answers, and can read "Gil Blas" without difficulty, seek a tutor, and it will give him as much pleasure to teach you pronunciation as it will you to learn it. But, until you have a master or a "Key," do not try to com-pose a single sentence in French. MINNIE.- Undoubtedly there is fashion in lan-guage as well as costume, but it does not change so often nor so rapidly. The exuberant develop-ment of slang, for instance, cannot collapse so suddenly as an (imagined) article of ladies' apparel, for the reason that slang ramifies itself through the whole language, and induces an hyperbolical style of conversation that sometimes nearly approaches the diabolical. Were we, as a rule, to use the simplest possible language in expressing our thoughts, we could afford to throw more animation and expression into our countenances without lay-ing ourselves open to the charge of being "French," while, on the other hand, that would be nothing to be ashamed of. There are many English productions whose appearance would be much heightened by the application of a little "French polish." With respect to the propriety of the phrase, a "delicious"evening, we think it is not very wrong. The even-ings of this month are often so balmy and sweet that the perfumes floating through the air may beboth smelt and tasted; what better word than "delicious" to express that phenomenon? The best writers use the word to signify all that is tangibly agreeable and charming. "A magnificent voice"is not good; a "love of a bonnet" is all right, be-cause it suggests a love in a bonnet; but we do not admire the expression, a "sweet" dress, when the adjective might better be applied to her who wears it - but custom doth make martyrs of us all, and of our language, too. A word to the wise - from the wise, of course - is enough. A BROKEN-HEARTED ONE asks some very sillyquestions about herself and her lover which we decline to answer. A broken heart signifies allthat is melancholy and terribly sorrowful; but it is very evident, from the flippancy of our corre-spondent's letter, that there is no fear at present of her falling into that dread abyss. We hope shenever will; but, if she is capable of treating the "tender passion" with a certain degree of levity, we promise her we will never be guilty of that indiscretion. CHARLOTTE.- The hair is worn in so many styles, that any mode of dressing it may be pronouncedfashionable. We have lately seen a blonde beauty with her hair rolled over a frizzette behind, with a long curl falling down on each side - and such curls! Others wear it in plaits, and one of our West-endbelles has created quite a sensation by wearing her a la Rosa Bonheur. However, the style is said to suit her exactly; and that, be it remarked, is everything. MRS. HODGES.- You will excuse our saying that it would be an enormous advantage to ourselves, and surely no less to our subscribers, if they would readthrough this department of our Magazine; for, in such case, they would often receive immediate solutions to many a little problem floating in theirmind. You can send in the tops of the wrappers of those parts deficient in cheques, and they will be accepted instead. AUTHORESS.- Ever desirous to be generous as well as just, we will henceforth try what we can do in the way of returning rejected MSS. We do not court a flood of probationary contributions, for we have not prepared our ark against such a con-tingency; but to those who are anxious to submit their intellectual bread to the waters of our opinion, who feel sure that their productions are adapted toour columns, we will promise to read them, and return them before many days, if we must refuse them, provided the senders inclose with a MS. aplainly addressed and sufficiently stamped envelope, and write their name and address upon the MS. itself. FLORA, BEATRICE, and LILLY SOPHIA are good enough to join in the arm-hole controversy, volun-teering the following bona fide testimony to the correctness of our patterns:- "We are requested by our friends to acknowledge the correctness of the pattern of the dress with waistcoat for littleboys, which appeared in the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE for June, 1861. A relativeof ours has had one made from the pattern, and it fitted admirably; indeed, our little Franklooks quite charming in it. We are extremely sur-prised at the ingratitude of Sophia Anderson and her friends. We have tried a great many collars, braiding, embroidery, and Berlin wool work, &c., and have found them always correct. We assure you we are very thankful for such correct patterns, and trust you will think these lines worth inserting in your Magazine. We hope that Contessa will re-veal the valuable secret that she is in possession of, as, when we take our dancing lessons, our hair fallsstraight, and we are anxious to know what will prevent the same." OLYMPUS.- When you would make a birthdaypresent, it is "pretty to observe," as Pepys would say, what are the particular desires of the one whois to be the happy recipient of your generosity; and, having discovered them, try to gratify them. From the want of this delicate attention, it is nouncommon thing for a baby, on its birthday, to have half-a-dozen silver mugs, and an adult half-a-dozen pairs of slippers; which events render it necessary - for a genuine appreciation of the gifts - that the donees should have fabulous powers of adapting human nature to the exigencies of the hour. ST. SWITHIN is very much out of spirits. He hasimposed upon the confidence placed in him by the readers of his "Notes of the Month;" for he toldthem in the merry May that the Te Deum was composed by St. Ambrose on the occasion of the baptism of St. Augustine, Archbishop of Canterbury, whereas the good Bishop of Milan died about two hundred years before that event, and the hymn in question was, it is said, poured forth by him miracu-lously when St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo, was made a member of the visible Church. Now, ST.SWITHIN can offer no excuse in palliation of his great carelessness, so he throws himself on themercy of the subscribers of the ENGLISHWOMAN'SDOMESTIC MAGAZINE; but his amour propre will not allow him to conclude without stating that he discovered the effects of the confusion, caused by an unavoidable hurry, long, long before he was favoured with the sight of H. M.'s letter; that he did his best to prevent the error being perpetuated in print. /* September 1861 (Series 2, Vol. 3, No. 17, p. 217-264)Answers to Correspondents, p. 263 - PDF page 952, The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 264 - PDF page 953 */ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS HELENA TAYLOR. It really is impossible to say what is the best material for cleaning teeth, so much depends upon the state of the teeth and the bodily health of different persons; but all teeth, we think, may be safely kept clean with simple white curd soap. Your handwriting is pretty, but not sufficiently firm. - BESSIE. Vol. I of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE can be had complete, with Fashion Plates, price 5s. Vol. II. is also ready. Thecovers for binding Vols. I. and II., with Indexand Title-Page, can be had, post free, for 1s.; the Index separately for 2d. - FANNY is in-formed that moles are rarely removed by any process; but freckles may be eradicated. A goodwash for the purpose may be made as follows:- Take one drachm of muriatic acid, half a pint of rain-water, half a teaspoonful of spirits of lavender. Mix, and apply two or three times a day to the freckles with a bit of linen, or a camel-hair pencil. - SIXPENCE in postage-stamps has been received from Blandford, with one of our printed forms, ordering the Double Number of the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE for May, but with no address. There are no publishers in London morelavish of advertisements than ourselves, and yet we are, day by day, receiving 6d. for a 1s. book, and orders - to be executed "by return of post" - withoutany clue whither they are to go. - DINAH HARRIS. Mrs. Wilcockson, Goodge-street, Tottenham-court-road, sells silk for embroidering shawls. - HARRY. Those "horrid little insects" you speak of may be kept under, as housewives say, by ceaseless clean-ing; but the only effectual way to destroy themall, your house being very old, is to destroy thehouse. - MELINE GRIMAND. You must consult a doctor; do not spend your cash upon foolish nos-trums. - G. and E. B. There is no cure forchronic rheumatism. - DORA B. Numerous pat-terns have already appeared for the purpose. - ANN COOPER. If your numbers are delivered at our office, free of carriage, we will bind them for 1s. 6d. the volume, charging an extra 4d. to send it by post. - MRS. GERAGHTY. The cost of sendingone copy a month of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE to Canada, post free, is 9d., or 9s. a year. - MARIA. You can have the Keys to "ChristmasAnnual" at 3d. each; post free, 4d. - SARAH HIGGINS. - The verses are not good enough forour use. - I. O. U. Diluted aquafortis - MISS A. COLE. We suppose we shall never have done cautioning correspondents against the old "post-age-stamps" delusion. Old postage-stamps areworthless, except as waste-paper, fetching sometrifle per pound. Florence Nightingale couldsuggest work for leisure hands to do, better than that of clipping up or soaking off the defaced"franks" of the penny post. - KEZIA will receive the pages when we know to whom to send them. - CHRYSANTHEMUM. A list of the Prizeholders for 1861 will be sent to you. - DORCAS. Take your feathersto a professional cleaner - a Frenchman, if possible. - MATERFAMILIAS. You will find all you see, and a great deal more, in Mrs. Beeton's "Book of House-hold Management." Beeton's "Book of Garden Management" will soon appear. THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONEVICTORIA. When we have said that "THE QUEEN" is to be an illus-trated journal and review for Englishwomen, we hardly knowwhat to add in explanation of the projector's design. "THE QUEEN" will not be merely a newspaper, thoughin one shape or other it will contain whatever in the way of news is likely to interest its readers. The first aim of the paper will be to illustrate, with pen and pencil, not only the events, but the mannersand morals of the time. But Victoria must not imagine that she is to have a ponderous, didacticpaper. Common sense and good humour are qualitiesas rare in the press as learning and satire. Gay, graceful, sensible writing is what the editor of "THEQUEEN" proposes to fill his columns with. Music, the theatre, and all manner of amusements, in-doorand out-door, will be largely dealt with. There will be an ample department for belles lettres; and, what is not of least importance, "THE QUEEN" will keep its reader well apprised of the latest changesin all that appertains to la mode. We hope we have now given Victoria a clearer idea of what the new journal is likely to be. EUDORA. - Your question is somewhat peculiar and puzzling: "At what age are ladies consideredold maids?" Single ladies are old maids at thirty, if their hearts do not beat with sympathetic emotionat the joys of youth or the sorrows of age. They are not old maids at fifty, if they can look kindly on all the world, talk cheerfully on all womanly topics, and eschew scandal and eccentricity. We knowfour "unmarried ladies," Whose ages range from forty to sixty, who are soft-hearted, generous, industrious, pious, and happy sisters, living together(a life of celibacy - through accident, not choice), and their friends speak of them as "unmarried," not "old maids." Bid cynicism, self-deception, and empty vanities begone, Eudora, and a green oldage will bring with it the world's respect, and it (the world) will not call thee of the solitary hearthan "old maid." Q.- Yes, with very great pleasure will we tell ourreaders, on the authority of our correspondent, there is "no more lovely place in the whole world than Kew," and we are not disposed to quarrel with her innocent hyperbole. It is a glorious place in Kew, and the Gardens were never more beautiful than now. The Conservatory is an especial object of attraction; the verdant embowered roof and walls of this highly-adorned and beautiful 'Templeof Flora' being festooned, garlanded, and wreathed with foliage in endless variety of form and innu-merable rich clusters of fragrant blossom, of a thousand rainbow tints and every shade of colour." We will conclude our remarks with a couple of stanzas from Mr. Horace Smith's rhapsodical "Hymn to the Flowers in Kew Gardens:" - "Your voiceless lips, O flowers! are living preachers, Each cup a pulpit, and each leaf a book, Supplying to my fancy numerous teachersFrom loneliest nook. *   *   *   *"Were I, O God, in churchless lands remaining, Far from all voice of teachers or divines, My soul would find in flowers of Thy ordaining Priests, sermons, shrines." ELIZABETH F.- No; we never heard of the "Legend of the Wedding-Ring:" we believe there is no such poem published, or certainly not extant. But there might be a score. The wedding-ring is indeed, a magic circle. In Devonshire they say a wedding-ring made of three nails or screws, which have been used to fasten a coffin that has been dug out of the churchyard, will keep its wearer free from the king's evil. In another county they say the ring finger stroked over sores will soon heal them. A crooked sixpence moulded into a wedding-ring will cure fits. A ring made from nine six-pences, subscribed by one sex, is a cure for epilepsyin the other. Warts touched or pricked with a goose-berry thorn through the ring will vanish; and, in short, it appears beyond a doubt, that the wedding-ring possesses most wonderful powers, moral and physical; and, although some of life's trials may commence with the putting on of the wedding-ring, there are others which the little talisman can charmaway. MARIA S. P. - Do not strain your delicate handsin the effort to make "that crinoline." You can buy better crinolines than you can make. Takethem one with the other, you can buy them for the price of the raw materials. Now it surely is not profitable industry to consume hours at home in producing an article which, when completed, hascost as much as that in the shop window, and is nobetter, possibly not so good. To make one of the crinolines, such as you mention, at home, would require some sort of powerful machinery to pressthe claws firmly on to the steel; and then it is altogether impossible - unless you have similar blocks to those which are used for the purpose - to get the shape required. "AN ADMIRER" wishes us to favour her "with a broad crochet pattern for a pocket-handkerchief - a pattern, composed of leaves and flowers - simi-lar to the Irish work." Few ladies besides the writer of this would, we think, care to do anything so elaborate. To look at all well, it would have to be done in a very fine cotton, and with a very finehook, which would take a very long time to do, and would scarcely be worth the trouble when it was done. KATE.- Can we tell you the boundary-line whichseparates honest criticism from flattery? Can youtell us where matter ends and spirit begins? No! of course you cannot. Nobody can, perhaps never will, ambitious KATE. Solid, simple truth may beadorned with a thousand little graces, that will con-vert an otherwise repulsive lecture into a charmingdissertation, and the sweetest flattery be adminis-tered most innocently, most harmlessly. A sculptor of our acquaintance, a famous man, and an Irishman, be it observed, is the most honest critic, and, in the highest sense of the word, the most consummateflatterer, we ever knew. His manner is thus peculiar:he only gives his opinion on his friends' productions when it is sought, and then he gives it without stint. His hearty language flows out freely and kindly; and in making comparisons, or passingjudgment, he always brings the highest models to his aid. It would make a beggar feel somewhat a king, when he learned that he, the beggar, possessed faculties in common with a king. /* Same NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS as previous month. *//* October 1861 (Series 2, Vol. 3, No. 18, p. 265-312)Answers to Correspondents, p. 311 - PDF page 1004, The Englishwoman’s Conversazione p. 312 - PDF page 1005 */ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS NORA CREINA has only to take twelve numbersof the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, from May to May, and send up the cheques contained ontheir wrappers, to entitle her to a chance in the ballot for prizes. - FANNIE. If this is the first time you have written to us, we hope it is not the firsttime you have read our advice to all those who are ailing in the manner you appear to be - to go to a medical man, and not to tamper with yourself bytaking outward remedies when the disease isevidently inward. - EMMA. Your requests shall be complied with, if possible, next month. - SUSAN STRANGELY. Use Rowlands' Kalydor. - VIOLET. We have taken note of your requirements. - MRS. BALLARD. We do pay for articles in the ENGLISH-WOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, and we do return MSS. not accepted. - SYBILLA. We will try to oblige you, if you will let us know the amount to be expended on the trousseau, and whether it is to include house-linen and dresses, mantles, &c., or only under-linen. - LUCY will find the patterns she wants in Part 12, Vol. II., of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE, New Series. She may ask any questions she pleases of the Editor. - LITTLEDORRIT. Your cheques are too late. Your hand-writing is pretty. You can have the Magazinedirect from us. Terms will be forwarded on appli-cation. - MRS. BUSH. Send the designs you speak of. We will entertain them, if possible. - MARIA PEARCE. We can allow you the usual twenty-five per cent. off any number of books you may purchase, but we could not, in that case, pay postage or carriage for them. - ANNIE H. (Southampton.) Send the tops of the wrappers of those numbers that contain nocheques. Send the cheques any time before next June. - CAROLINE. The simplest recipe for a com-position to restore hair that ever we heard of is one just received :- "Take the top of an old shoe, burn it to ashes, and mix with a little bit of unwashedbutter. With this salve anoint the place morningand night for a few weeks. - W. R. The proper pro-nunciation of Schiller is Shil ler. _ HARRIS. 1. There is a romance called "Old London Bridge." 2. We will, if possible, give the pattern you want. - S. PRIDHAM. Pelerines for your purpose may be pur-chased at Mr. Hill's, 121, Oxford-street, London. The price of those in real lace ranges from 16s. 9d. to 26s. 9d.; those made in crochet, with fringe, from 18s. 6d. to 38s. 5d. - Mr. B. S. BRIGG. 1. Hookerand Arnott's "British Flora" is published by Longman and Co., London, price 14s. 2. Botanical paper for drying plants is manufactured by Betall and Co., of Halsted, and by Weir, of Queen-street, Glasgow. Bentall's paper may be obtained throughany respectable stationer. - MOLLY. "The FamilySecret" embraced 35 chapters. - MRS. GOYDER. Yes, madam, it is most clearly and distinctly stated, in the prospectus of our Bible, that it would be "the aimof those engaged in the production of the 'Notes' for this Bible to select from each annotator, as far as is possible, those elucidations which his special knowledge enabled him to give, and to reproduce these in a succinct form and appropriate language." It is enough now to observe that the "IlluminatedFamily Bible" will contain the most comprehensive and valuable Commentary ever published - MARYJOSEPHINA. We are very sorry at your havinghollow teeth, but we would much rather you con-sulted a dentist about them than us. - META S. At Messrs. Dean and Son's, Ludgate-hill, London. - MISS MAC ANDREW. 1s. 6d., gilt edges, cloth. Messrs. Kend and Co - LOUISE. You must consult a surgeon. Mrs. Beeton's "Book of Household Management" - parts 22 and 23 - treats upon the common ailments that flesh is heir to, but it does not meddle with special cases, and yours is such a one. The poetryis rhapsodical, loose in construction, and altogethertoo inferior for publication - BLUE BELL. Cut themout, and when you have got twelve send them to 248, Strand. - ELLEN should make quite sure that she wears easy boots. Bathing the feet in salt and water will harden them. - MARY VIOLET. Our hands are over full at present. We cannot promise to read your MS. for a month or so. - SYRINGA. On oneside only. The real name and address, certainly.- AMY ROBSART. There is no doubt about Blondin's having crossed Niagara on a rope. - M. CARR. Please put your question again. Your letter must have been mislaid. - E. L. "Solferino" is a namegiven to a colour possessing a more lilac tinge than Magenta: it is a sort of Magenta pink. - DOMES-TICUS. Your plan is a good one, but we have before recommended a simpler one. - MORTIMER. Strong soda-water - that is to say, water with rather a large proportion of soda mixed in it - will often restore violet ribbon, and it might have the same effect with the blue. The ribbon should be dipped in the water, then taken out, and immediately ironed with rather a hot iron. - LENA. Your hand-writing is good, but it would be better if it weresmaller. - C. P. PINK. Your handwriting is not good. We are not graphiologists, so cannot answer your second question. - FILICES. You can send them next year. - MORTIMER. Miss Parkes's addressis 19, Langham-place, Regent-street. - BRIXTONIAN. The numbers only of the cheques belonging to the prize-holders of 1860 were printed; the names were omitted. - BENJAMINA. It is not customary to send in a card; and your other question is so absurd that it is difficult to answer it; of course peoplemust suit themselves to circumstances. - MISS ORTON cannot have the least idea what a pattern like the one she wishes would cost. It would be impossible to give it in a sixpenny magazine - M. G. Patterns such as you require have been given several times. - LENA. A group of flowers admirably suited for your purpose appeared in the May number of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE. - MRS. EVENLYN BOOTHBY. If you will say what style of bonnet you require we shall be obliged: it is rather a difficult thing to give a pattern of a bonnet. THE ENGLISHWOMAN'S CONVERSAZIONELEONORA. Is the wearing of jewellery on the decline, or otherwise? On the decline, most certainly, in a general sense, but on stateoccasions the blaze of diamondsis not less than ever. Beautiful execu-tion and design in ivory, jet, or stoneare now-a-days often more esteemed than ugly masses of gold and brilliants. The love of variety, too, prompts even ladiesof rank to change the fashion of their jewellery, and to be happier with an electro-plate duplicate of a work of fine art, which cost but a few pounds, than when adorned with a "gem" which would buy a German duke-dom. The following historical facts, ancient and comparatively modern, are particularly interesting on this subject :- Sollia Paulina, a Roman lady, being invited to a banquet, went to it bearing abouther person chains, carcanets, and precious stonesworth a million of money. Sir Walter Raleigh wasobserved at the court of Queen Elizabeth to wear his shoes so set with pearls and precious stones that they were estimated to exceed the value of six thousand six hundred crowns; and George Cilliers, Duke of Buckingham, this favourite of James I, when admitted to an audience by Louis XIII., the King of France, as ambassador from the King of Great Britain, had jewels on his coat to the value of £100,000. These facts undoubtedly apply to state occasions: but even at such times as those, we, in these latter days, do not desire to vie with our ancestors. A. C. - And so you think the list of subjects we have advertised to be included in our new work, "HomePets," not sufficiently comprehensive? We should only be too glad to extend the list, if we though there were to be found enough of genial and merry hearts like yourself to patronise our labours. But your list is very large; and, surely, you are facetious, my friend, when you call inanimate things "pets." A Pet is a thing petted, and coaxed, and smiled upon, and cared for, and - yes, perhaps lived; it has the power to reciprocate, in its own peculiar way, the kindness lavished upon it, be the pet a baby or a bird. But, although Charles may, as you think, make his photographic apparatus "more of a pet" than he does of you; or your neighbour his fancy coffee-pots than he does his wife; although Mrs. T. has her antique china always next to her heart, and her bachelor brother is absorbed in rock crystalsand model steam-engines, you must not call those things pets; they are "hobbies" - things which may be ridden to the death without suffering. Pets can suffer, and it should be the principal aim of the pet-keeper to see that they don't. For the how to do this let our pretty little books prescribe. FLORA.- The series of Botanical articles will beresumed in our next number. ELIZA asks us to countenance the introductionof hoods in the place of bonnets - in short, to "writedown bonnets." Does Eliza know the extent to which Punch has increased the use of crinoline by his caricaturing those of our sisters who like to dress themselves like Venuses rising from invertedpunch-bowls? Eliza must surely remember thedistich- "If they will they will, you may depend on't, But if they won't they won't, and there's an end on't." Hoods, bonnets, and hats, full skirts and narrowskirts, colours of mauve, magenta, or azuline, are all adaptable to some pretty figure or other. Variety is ever charming, and all attempts to put restrictionsupon fashion in costume have proved pitiful failures. If your looking-glass tells you, ELIZA, that you may venture upon an innovation, go to church in a hood, and take the consequences. May they be all that is agreeable!F. E. E. - Amongst the new, or rather renewed, features in the next volume of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE will be a page devoted to cookery and other recipes of daily use in the house-hold. Indeed, we contemplate several forthcoming improvements, and we shall be always thankful forhints from our subscribers; for it is to their mutualco-operation, in dropping the timely and kindly suggestion, that the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE has, in a great measure, become what it is. LAURA is impertinent; there is no mistake about it; or, if she is not, then she is unwell, and not alto-gether accountable for the words that flow so glibly from her pen. For obvious reasons we abstain from publishing the flattering letters we receive, and it would be no better taste to publish such as LAURA'S, which is quite the reverse. She talks about our publishing "mawkish nonsense," without pointingto the offensive page on which the thing lies. She is glad we are going to do this, and sorry we are going to do that, and - ye fair readers of our Magazine - is there any reason why LAURA should not suffer some slight reprimand at our hands for consuming our time in reading her carping, fault-finding, fidgettyeffusion? She is a type of that class, who, suffering from the cacoethes scribendi, indict their opinions in extenso upon busy editors, to the prejudice of those kind friends who gently criticise and hint - pointing to the better parts of our work - that we should give more of these, &c., &c. LAURA is not one of those who would extract sunbeams from cucumbers: for her own sake we wish she were. SULTANA. - The Turkish bath is going out of fashion, not necessarily because of the beautiful weather and the opportunities for sea-bathing afforded by excursion trains, but because there is a feeling against it. The time consumed in the operations for the Turkish bath is one great obstacleto its popularity; and people, especially those whohave always been addicted to cleanliness, are begin-ning to feel that, if even a shower of somethingcalled the epidermis can be rubbed off them, if by no means follows that it should. This doubt has seized hold on many thinking minds, and the shocking colds and splitting headaches that toofrequently follow the extreme treatment of the Turkish bath are manifestations not to be slighted. NELLY BLY kindly sense us the following valuablerecipe for obliterating marking ink from linen :- Take some tincture of iodine and apply it with a camel-hair brush or feather to parts stained with marking ink; allow it to soak in well, and dry thoroughly; then take of hyposulphate of soda, which dissolve, in the proportion of one ounce to half a pint of hot water, and wash therewith the stains as above treated, when caustic and iodine marks will both disappear. In the event of non-success, the same process can be gone over again, but will rarely be needed. NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS. Vols. I., II., and III. of the ENGLISHWOMAN'S DOMESTIC MAGAZINE (New Series) are not ready, price 5s. each, post free. The Title-page to each volume, with Preface, Index, Envelope for holdingBerlin patterns and pattern sheets, and directionsfor binding, are also ready, price 1d. each; post free, 2d. Covers for binding each volume, price 1s. "THE QUEEN," an ILLUSTRATEDJOURNAL AND REVIEW. - 6d. Weekly. The Publisher of "The Queen" begs to inform the public that the Photograph of Her Majesty can be had with any Number of "The Queen," it being taken instead of the current Supplement. *** In November a Photograph of the Prince Consort will be issued with "The Queen." 1